Social events propelling Western Cape's increase in Covid-19 cases Western Cape health officials are concerned about an increase in Covid-19 cases in the province as the Garden Route pushed up the infection rate this week. Health department head Dr Keith Cloete said the latest data showed an increase in cases in all Cape Town districts as well. During a media briefing on Thursday, Dr Terence Marshall, health cluster lead for the Garden Route, said George and Knysna led the upward climb in infections and had 1,102 active cases between them. Covid-19 snuffs out V&A New Year's fireworks for first time in 30 years Covid-19's parting gift to 2020 will be the cancellation of the V&A Waterfront's New Year's Eve fireworks display for the first time in 30 years. About 200,000 people normally pack Cape Town's prime tourist attraction for the annual midnight display but CEO David Green said on Thursday: “With the current Covid-19 restrictions on public gatherings, with great regret under the circumstance, it will not be possible to stage a large-scale event.” Proteas player tests positive for Covid-19 and two others isolated ahead of England tour of SA Cricket SA (CSA) have confirmed that a Proteas player has tested positive for Covid-19 in tests conducted before the squad entered the bio-safe environment in Cape Town. The limited-overs series between SA and England begins on Friday next week and  about 50 Covid-19 PCR tests were performed on players and support staff before entering the camp. The player who tested positive and the two others who are considered close contacts have been placed in immediate isolation as part of the Covid-19 safety protocols. They are not showing signs of any symptoms at the moment. Worldwide coronavirus cases cross 55.93 million, death toll at 1,343,584 More than 55.93 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 1,343,584​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. -REUTERS