Facebook  and Twitter flagged some of President Donald Trump's posts on the US election as votes were still being counted, in a real-time test of their rules on handling misinformation and premature claims of victory. The two companies have been under fierce scrutiny over how they police rapidly spreading false information and election-related abuses of their platforms. In the weeks leading up to Tuesday's vote, they both vowed to take action on posts by candidates trying to declare early victory. -Reuters Despite incomplete results from several battleground states that could determine the outcome of the US presidential race, President Donald Trump proclaimed victory over Democratic challenger Joe Biden on Wednesday. The premature move confirmed worries Democrats had voiced for weeks that Trump would seek to dispute the election results. That could set off any number of legal and political dramas in which the presidency could be determined by some combination of the courts, state politicians and Congress. -Reuters Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša congratulated Donald Trump on what he described in a tweet as a clear victory in the US presidential election, becoming the first European Union leader to do so. "It’s pretty clear that American people have elected @realDonaldTrump @Mike_Pence for #4moreyears," said the leader of the tiny Alpine country, which is homeland of first lady Melania Trump. "More delays and facts denying from #MSM, bigger the final triumph for #POTUS," tweeted Jansa, a rightist politician who had supported Trump ahead of the U.S. vote. "Congratulations @GOP for strong results across the #US." -Reuters The US presidential election will be decided by a handful of states that could swing to either President Donald Trump, a Republican, or his Democratic challenger Joe Biden. These states play a critical role in delivering the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House. Of the 13 states on this watch list, seven remain undecided, four have gone to Trump and two have gone to Biden. None of the decided states represent a change from the 2016 election. Wall Street and global financial executives are waiting anxiously for a clear winner in the 2020 US election after President Donald Trump called foul play, stoking fears of a drawn-out count that keeps markets and businesses hanging. While the Republican incumbent has handed the financial industry huge tax breaks and deregulatory wins, his first term has also been marked by volatility and unpredictability, particularly in international trade. Oil was largely steady on Wednesday after President Donald Trump falsely claimed victory in a tight US election, despite millions of votes still to be counted and the final result not yet clear. West Texas Intermediate was up 16 cents, or 0.4%, at $37.82 a barrel by 0850 GMT. Brent crude was up by 24 cents, or 0.6%, at $39.95, after trading between $39.85 and $40.80. Voters in New Jersey and Arizona legalized marijuana for recreational use on Tuesday, and in Oregon approved the country's first therapeutic use for psilocybin, the hallucinogenic drug known as magic mushrooms. The measures were among at least 124 statutory and constitutional questions put to voters this year in 32 US states and the District of Columbia, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Investors rushed to adjust portfolios for a tighter and later U.S. election result than many had assumed before Wednesday, with pre-poll expectations of a clear Democratic party win in White House and Senate races looking wide off the mark. Global stocks gyrated in early trade as results from Tuesday's national vote streamed in, with a final call now seen unlikely for days and the outcome raising the potential for gridlock that complicates the chance of a quick US government spending boost to counter the effects of the pandemic. Republican President Donald Trump won the battleground of Florida and took the lead over Democratic rival Joe Biden in other US. swing states, but Biden voiced confidence he would win the election by taking three key Rust Belt states. "Markets don't like ongoing uncertainty and not knowing the presidential result and a possible dragging out of that over a number of days and that environment looks likely," said James Athey, investment director at Aberdeen Standard Investments. -Reuters A Democratic drive to win control of the US Senate appeared to fall short, with Democrats picking up only one Republican-held seat while six other races remained undecided early on Wednesday. Democrats defeated Republican Senators Cory Gardner of Colorado and Martha McSally of Arizona but lost the Alabama seat held by Democratic Senator Doug Jones. To win the majority in the Senate, Democrats would need to pick up three Republican seats if Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden is elected president and Senator Kamala Harris wields the tie-breaking vote as vice president. -Reuters President Donald Trump falsely claimed victory over Democratic rival Joe Biden on Wednesday with millions of votes still uncounted in a tight White House race that will not be resolved until a handful of states complete vote-counting over the next hours or days. Shortly after Biden said he was confident of winning the contest once the votes are counted, Trump appeared at the White House to declare victory and said his lawyers would be taking his case to the US Supreme Court, without specifying what they would claim." We were getting ready to win this election. Frankly, we did win this election," Trump said. "This is a major fraud on our nation. We want the law to be used in a proper manner. So we'll be going to the U.S. Supreme Court. We want all voting to stop." Polls have closed and voting has stopped across the country, but election laws in US states require all votes to be counted, and many states routinely take days to finish counting legal ballots. More votes still stood to be counted this year than in the past as people voted early by mail and in person because of the coronavirus pandemic. Earlier in the evening, Trump won the battlegrounds of Florida, Ohio and Texas, dashing Biden's hopes for a decisive early victory, but Biden said he was confident he was on track to winning the White House by taking three key Rust Belt states. -Reuters As commissioners of Fulton County, Pennsylvania, worked to finish tallying the vote early on Wednesday, the only question was whether President Donald Trump would top the 84% support he received in the rural Republican stronghold in 2016. The fate of the state - and Trump's chances in the national election - would be for others to decide."It will be a few days before we know Pennsylvania," said Randy Bunch, a county commissioner and Trump supporter, after confirming that Trump had won the county with 85.3% of the vote. "It is what it is." Fulton County is Trump Country. In 2016, the Republican president's overwhelming victory there made it the "reddest" of Pennsylvania's 67 counties. Tuesday's result was a sign the coronavirus pandemic had not dented Trump's popularity in this south-central slice of the state. Running up the score in areas like Fulton County has been seen as critical to Trump's chances in Pennsylvania, a battleground state also prized by Democratic challenger Joe Biden and which could ultimately determine the election. President Donald Trump's aides pored over election maps in the White House West Wing and cheered their candidate in the East Room as Election Day results in critical states such as Florida and Ohio came in favoring the Republican leader on Tuesday. But their cautious confidence took on irritation when Arizona, a state that backed Trump in 2016, was called by Fox News for Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, said sources familiar with the situation who asked not to be named. The president, who earlier in the day visited staff at his campaign headquarters in nearby Virginia, watched election returns with his family in the upstairs living room of the White House residence. “He’s calm, chilling,” said a source familiar with the scene. “He’s in the hunt.”As a tight White House race came down to a handful of states where vote-counting could take hours or days, Trump's wife, Melania, along with his adult children and their spouses moved in and out of the room. Downstairs and in the West Wing, aides played with election maps on their computers to gauge Trump's potential path to achieving the 270 electoral votes he would need to secure re-election. "We feel good," said one senior Trump adviser, who expressed both frustration that Florida was not called for the president earlier in the night as well as optimism about his chances in Michigan and Nevada."Good. But nervous," White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said of the mood among Trump's circle. -Reuters Wall Street investors, hunting for clues on who will win the US presidential race, are looking at the election results in a few dozen counties that could be indicative of broader trends Americans took to the polls yesterday to choose between Donald Trump and Joe Biden. Jane Dutton talks to Rachel Silverman in California and Professor Anthoni Van Nieuwkerk from the Wits School of governance. Democrat Joe Biden said he was confident of victory and President Donald Trump accused Democrats of trying to steal the election on Wednesday as a tight White House race came down to a handful of states where vote-counting could take hours or days. Trump won the battlegrounds of Florida, Ohio and Texas, dashing Biden's hopes for a decisive early defeat of the president, but Biden said he was on track to winning the White House by taking three key Rust Belt states.Biden, 77, was eyeing the so-called "blue wall" states of Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania that sent Trump, 74, to the White House in 2016 for possible breakthroughs once those states finish counting votes cast earlier by mail and in person. In Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and much of Michigan, mail-in ballots were not processed until Election Day on Tuesday. "We feel good about where we are," Biden said in his home state of Delaware, shouting over a din of supporters in cars honking their horns in approval. -Reuters US president Donald Trump was leading Democratic rival Joe Biden in the vital battleground state of Florida on Tuesday and in several other competitive swing states that will help decide the election, including North Carolina, Ohio and Texas.