As the US presidential race draws to a close, the world is waiting with bated breath to see who will emerge as the winner. Early indications point to Joe Biden, the Republican candidate, inching closer to the 270 Senate seats needed for him to be the new president of the US. However, Donald Trump is reported to have prematurely claimed victory, vowing to stop the counting of the remaining votes. Many fear that Trump will challenge the results should they not be in his favour. U.S. stock futures jumped on Thursday on bets that a potential gridlock in Washington could reduce the chance of major policy changes that would hurt corporate America, although concerns remained about the risk of a contested presidential election. -Reuters The Kremlin said on Thursday that the lack of clarity after the November 3  US presidential election so far could have a negative impact on the global economy and world at large, but declined to comment further. Democrat Joe Biden moved closer to victory in the US presidential race on Thursday as election officials tallied votes in the handful of states that will determine the outcome and protesters took to the streets. -Reuters With tensions rising, about 200 of Trump's supporters, some armed with rifles and handguns, gathered outside an election office in Phoenix, Arizona, following unsubstantiated rumors that votes were not being counted. Oil dropped on Thursday as Democrat Joe Biden edged closer to the White House in a nail-biting US presidential election, but the Republicans look likely to retain Senate control, decreasing the chances of any huge Covid-19 relief package. US West Texas Intermediate crude futures were down 60 cents, or 1.53%, to $38.55 a barrel at 0756 GMT, while Brent crude futures fell 64 cents, or 1.55%, to $40.59 a barrel. Portland Police said it arrested ten people in the demonstrations after declaring riots in the city's downtown area while the New York Police Department (NYPD) said it made about 50 arrests in protests that spread in the city late on Wednesday. "All of the gatherings that were declared riots were downtown. We have made 10 arrests", a Portland Police spokesman told Reuters in an emailed statement. The United States Electoral College is a name used to describe the official 538 Presidential electors who come together every four years during the presidential election to give their official votes for President and Vice President of the United States The Democratic Governor of Pennsylvania said he would "fight like hell" to make sure every vote in his state was counted. It comes as 20 electoral college votes are at play in the US Presidential Election 2020 with Donald Trump taking a narrow lead. The Trump administration has brought legal action against the state to prevent more votes being counted. Trump's Twitter timeline has been flooded with rants and accusations of fraud and violation of America's democracy since the polls closed on Tuesday. Democrat Joe Biden on Wednesday predicted victory over President Donald Trump after winning two critical US states, while the Republican incumbent alleged fraud, filed lawsuits and demanded recounts in a race yet to be decided a day after polls closed. As US President Donald Trump and his allies flooded social media on Wednesday with false claims of victory and unsupported allegations of voter fraud, social media companies warned users the presidential election had yet to be decided. The posts on Twitter, Facebook and other sites are imposing a real-time test of Silicon Valley's much-touted rules on handling election misinformation and premature claims of victory. But it is not clear whether the disclaimers and fact-checks, which often occur well after posts have been shared tens of thousands of times, are curbing the circulation of baseless claims. And in the case of Facebook, staff rewrote some of their rules on the fly. Stocks and currencies in Asia's emerging markets firmed across the board on Thursday as Democrat Joe Biden pulled ahead of Republican rival Donald Trump and was within striking distance of securing a nail-biting US presidential election. Biden is widely seen as likely to be less combative on trade policy and in relations with the region's growth engine China, and investors hope that may clear the way for Asia's stronger recovery from the coronavirus crisis to draw more investment. In the short-term, however, analysts said a retreat for the dollar was the bigger driver for the region's currencies, with the Indonesian rupiah and Taiwan's dollar up 1% and 1.5% respectively. China's yuan was marginally higher, while the South Korean won, like Taiwan highly sensitive to any easing of tensions in global trade relations, gained around 0.6%. Elsewhere in major emerging markets, the Mexican peso and Brazilian real, among the losers during Trump's time in the White House, both surged overnight. "A Biden victory is unlikely to result in a major change in US foreign policy short-term so more important is the direction of the dollar, with a weaker dollar more supportive of Asia & emerging market equities," Andrew Gillan, Head of Asia ex Japan equities, Janus Henderson Investors, Singapore said. Biden late on Wednesday predicted victory over Trump after pivotal wins in Michigan and Wisconsin, while the Republican incumbent sought to offset a narrowing path to re-election with lawsuits and demands for a recount. Betting sites, often closely watched by financial market players, now lean heavily towards Biden, although investors continue to worry about the potential for weeks of court battles that will delay any further fiscal support for a US economy struggling with the novel coronavirus. -Reuters EFF leader Julius Malema has weighed in on the US elections, saying President Donald Trump must accept defeat and not try to hinder the process. Malema shared his views on the US elections during a “special visit” to Pharmacy Direct on Wednesday. He said if first-world countries were complaining about alleged electoral fraud and vote-rigging, global democracy was in danger.