Harris, born to an Indian mother and a Jamaican father, both of whom immigrated to the United States to study, made history by becoming the first woman to win the second-highest US office in the election. Turkey will continue working with the new US administration on issues concerning the NATO allies, Vice President Fuat Oktay said on Sunday in the first Turkish comments since Joe Biden was declared the winner of the US elections. Iran's president said on Sunday the next US administration should use the opportunity to compensate for President Donald Trump's mistakes, Iranian state reported after Joe Biden captured the US presidency. "Trump's damaging policy has been opposed ... by the American people. The next U.S. administration should use the opportunity to make up for past mistakes," President Hassan Rouhani was quoted as saying. All eyes were on Nevada, which many political analysts believed would hand Biden victory. His supporters wanted the win, and they wanted it fast - but no one sent Nevada the memo. When questioned why their results were taking so long, the state's authorities said everything was going according to plan. “Under Nevada law, mail ballots postmarked on or before election day and received no later than 5pm on November 10 will be counted,” they said. "God Bless You Donald and Melania" read the poster hanging over an Israeli highway during the US election campaign. In nearby Palestinian areas, anti-Trump graffiti adorned walls. Perhaps nowhere outside his own country did President Donald Trump polarise opinion more than in Israel and the Palestinian Territories, where to many he was either hero or villain. President Cyril Ramaphosa has congratulated US president-elect Joe Biden and vice president-elect Kamala Harris with their election victory. "For all those of you who voted for President Trump, I understand the disappointment tonight. I've lost a couple times myself. But now, let's give each other a chance. It's time to put away the harsh rhetoric, lower the temperature, see each other again, listen to each other again," he said. "This is the time to heal in America." Hundreds of supporters of President Donald Trump rallied in downtown Phoenix on Saturday to contest Joe Biden's election as US president, charging the media with conspiring to steal the election and calling the results a "coup." Days of pent-up post-election anxiety gave way to spontaneous street celebrations as Joe Biden supporters on Saturday cheered news of his presidential win with a cacophony of banging pots and pans, honking horns and dance music in cities across the United States. Rallies by hundreds of supporters of Republican President Donald Trump, who insisted on Saturday "this election is far from over," were more muted in size and scope compared with the festive crowds that turned out by the thousands in some cities for Biden.