English health service planning for roll-out of different COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccines in England will be delivered through a variety of routes including local doctors surgeries and vaccine centres, NHS England's medical director said on Wednesday, adding that the exact plans will be contingent on which vaccine is used. "We will be using our traditional vaccine routes, so general practices, likely community pharmacy, but we will also be looking at other ways of delivering vaccinations such as vaccine centres," Stephen Powis said at a news conference."The plans around the delivery mechanisms will be contingent upon particular vaccine and of course the data that comes from the trials, and the advice of regulators. We will be saying more about this in the next few days." -REUTERS Covid-19 battle between insurers and hospitality firms moves to appeal court After two high court defeats for insurers who refused to pay Covid-19 business interruption claims, the arena is moving to the Supreme Court of Appeal. Guardrisk has challenged a Cape Town high court judgment in June ordering it to compensate Café Chameleon in Plattekloof, Cape Town, for revenue lost as a result of Covid-19 and the lockdown. Its appeal will be heard in Bloemfontein on Monday. On Tuesday, the Cape Town court ordered Santam to pay two hospitality companies which between them have business interruption cover worth R122m. Cost of Covax estimated at R4.8bn to cover 20% of SA population, says Zweli Mkhize South Africa could spend up to R4.8bn or more on a Covid-19 vaccine (Covax) that would cover 20% of the entire population. This was revealed by health minister Zweli Mkhize during an interview with Power FM on Wednesday morning. Speaking to breakfast host Faith Mangope, Mkhize said there was a budget in place and the money could be readily available. Traffic backlogged as taxi operators strike over Covid-19 relief funding Parts of the N1 highway were blocked off on Wednesday as taxi operators in and around Gauteng gear up for a planned protest march over Covid-19 relief funding that was promised to them. Drivers have blockaded some roads and are on a go-slow drive towards Pretoria. The National Taxi Alliance (NTA) operators plan to deliver a list of grievances to transport minister Fikile Mbalula and President Cyril Ramaphosa. China's battle with coronavirus on frozen food and packaging China has ramped up testing of frozen foods after saying it has repeatedly discovered the coronavirus on imported products and their packaging, triggering mass scale testing of food and related personnel, suspension of certain imports and disruptions to trade flows. China, which has suspended imports from 99 suppliers in 20 countries, argues these measures are needed to prevent more arrivals of the virus in a country that has largely contained the epidemic domestically. But major food-producing countries are growing increasingly frustrated with China's scrutiny of imported products. A seafood market in the central Chinese city of Wuhan is widely believed to be the origin of the pandemic that emerged late last year, but the Global Times, a tabloid backed by the ruling Chinese Communist Party, suggested this week that the presence of the virus on imported food raised the possibility that it may have come from overseas. -REUTERS