Three months ago President Cyril Ramaphosa drew a line in the sand with regard to corruption. Then ANC faction politics neatly wiped that line out. But now the unstoppable march of the inevitable can no longer be held back and, this morning, Ace Magashule is in the dock. The locomotive hit the ANC head-on and in slow motion this week. We sort of saw it coming, but it was starting to look like it had derailed somewhere along the way. But here the train is now. Magashule, the boss of Luthuli House, MD of the ruling party, secretary-general of the liberation movement, leader of the RET faction, former premier of the Free State, is entering the dock this morning as Accused Number 1. Magashule's court appearance is the beginning of the final chapter of the devastating decade of state capture, corruption and mismanagement that started with Jacob Zuma unseating Thabo Mbeki in 2008. Read more about this and more news and analysis in this week's issue of Vrye Weekblad. The alleged corruption of Magashule and other leading ANC figures from Zuma's inner circles directly led  to the removal of poor black people's right to a better life. These people did not steal from rich whites, but from the poorest of the poor – all in the name of Radical Economic Transformation. Ramaphosa has been looking forward to this day since he was elected at Nasrec in 2017, and was highly frustrated that it took so long to charge Magashule. Ramphosa's enemies are already plotting to humiliate him at the ANC's national general council, a policy conference that is held halfway between the five-yearly conferences, in six months' time. It seems that Magashule does not have enough stature in the party and support in the country to pull the pillars down around him or to cut Ramaphosa off at the knees. But others may step in to weaken the president. He will have to think on his feet to win the battles and keep his legitimacy. TRUMP DUMPED | By now it's pretty clear that Donald Trump's narcissism  and delusions of grandeur make him unfit to be president, and now he is so bitter and blind that he can't accept that a majority of more than 5 million Americans have rejected him. THE COPS OF GLEBELANDS | An ex-cop is back in the dock in connection with the reign of terror at the Glebelands hostel in KZN. FREE TO READ — HATE INTELLIGENCE | Even the most advanced algorithms  are no match for the hateful content on social media. SURPRISE! | It's good to know one can still be pleasantly surprised by the economy. WHAT ARE WE DRINKING? | Collectors' wine from the Swartland, Lowerland Tolbos Tannat, pink gin, whiskey sours, Babylonstoren's Bitter Lekker, and eau de vie, from Dalla Cia Grappa to Wilderer.