Watch: Truth Seekers It may not offer the laugh-out-loud consistency of their beloved feature film genre parodies but Simon Pegg and Nick Frost's series outing offers plenty of silly belly chuckles and a surprisingly solid sprinkling of spine-tingling creepy moments. It pokes fun at all those nutters you see on the History Channel in its tale of a group of misfit, part-time paranormal investigators and their adventures in the world of the supernatural. Where to stream it: Amazon Prime Video Watch: Enslaved Samuel L Jackson is the suitably angry and dedicated guide on this harrowing four-part journey through the history of slavery in Africa. It's an excavation of the troubling history of one of humanity's most shameful moments. But it also celebrates the life and resilience of the continent's people. Where to stream it: Showmax Watch: Slow Burn Award-winning podcast host Leon Neyfakh takes his fascinating examination of the untold stories of supporting characters in recent political history's most famous moments to screen. The first season tells the story of Watergate and the downfall of Richard Nixon. Through clever storytelling and a rich archive, it offers an intriguing re-examination of a story that many think they know. Where to stream it: Showmax Watch: Trial 4 The only thing more depressing than the stories of the miscarriages of justice endured by black men in the US legal system is the increasing number of documentaries being made about them. However, this is the moving and terrifyingly common story of Boston native Sean K Ellis and his 22-year-long battle to overturn his wrongful arrest for the killing of a policeman in 1993. Layered, detailed and led by an inspiring and determined protagonist, it's a solid piece of advocacy that, while it can't get back the years Ellis lost, can at least make viewers outraged enough to do something to make sure it doesn't happen to others. Where to stream it: Netflix Watch: The Crown Season 4 The ongoing saga of the British Royal Family is invigorated by the arrival of Princess Diana (Emma Corin) and Iron Lady Margaret Thatcher (Gillian Anderson in spectacular form) as we watch the turbulent political upheavals of the 1980s and the rollercoaster personal lives of the Windsors unfold in the increasingly shutter-happy glare of the media. Where to stream it: Netflix