For the past 10 years, South African retailers have been hosting Black Friday sale events, kickstarting the holiday shopping season in SA with big-ticket discounts across all categories. As the events have gained popularity, the start of Black Friday weekend has become one of the craziest times of the year. Shoppers wake up really early to be first in line, prepare bank cards in advance for sweet deals and develop strategies on which store to attack first. However, with Covid-19 still very much on our radar, it’s probably best to skip the queues, practice social distance and stay safe this year. Fortunately, Huawei AppGallery can help you avoid the crowds and chaos this Black Friday with a few taps of your screen. You can download, explore and enjoy great deals available on these apps on Huawei AppGallery: Takealot Takealot will be taking its famous Blue Dot Sales to the extreme this year by introducing hundreds of new deals that will be added on a daily basis for three consecutive weeks, from November 2 to 26. The company will have specials in 28 different departments, including TVs, laptops, kiddies’ toys, appliances, household essentials, beauty products, fashion and footwear. Shoppers can also expect deals on Cyber Monday and Takealot Tuesday. Vodacom/MTN and Telkom Telecoms service providers Vodacom, MTN and Telkom this year will be shaking things up by offering some great exclusive online deals. Whether you’re looking for tablets, smartphones or package deals, there’s definitely a deal for everyone this November. In Vodacom’s case, Black Friday is a good time to sign up for a new contract or upgrade on an existing one should you be eligible. VodaBucks Rewards programme users can grab a bargain or two. Don’t miss out on great deals from MTN and Telkom. Woolworths Woolworths will be offering promotions in its fashion, beauty, home and food departments. So, whether you’re craving Woolies' famous snacks or want to add that sapphire blue swimming costume or kaftan dress to add to your December wardrobe. To get your hands on these Black Friday deals before anyone else, simply use your Woolies app. Makro Makro has pulled a trick out its sleeve this year by providing consumers with an entire Black Friday month. The retailer is providing special deals for each week of November to give customers more time and more options. Items such as electronics, large appliances and home living products will be on special each week. By downloading the app and subscribing to Makro’s newsletter, you will be ahead of the curve on some amazing deals throughout November. Zando and Zaful Zando and Zaful will be giving their consumers the chance to grab their favourite summer fashion this month through some awesome online deals. Zando will be offering discounts of up to 70% on sneakers, jeans, dresses, and shoes with brands such as Adidas, Sissy Boy, and Levi’s for example; and Zaful, will be providing 20% discounts for first-time buyers. To keep the social distancing profitable, you can also retrieve coupons when referring a friend to download the Zaful app. After an undoubtedly tough year, South Africans certainly deserve some good bargains, especially as the festive season is just around the corner. The Black Friday top collection curated list of apps are all available on Huawei AppGallery would definitely help bring some cheer into households, without having to leave the comfort of your home. So the saying is definitely true, the early bird catches all the greatest deals on Huawei AppGallery. For more information, visit the Black Friday Online Deals collection. This article was paid for by Huawei Mobile Services.