Recently Samsung took the elements that made the Galaxy S20 so popular, along with the feedback of Galaxy fans, and created the Galaxy S20 FE. It features many of Galaxy S20’s game-changing camera innovations, such as 30x Space Zoom that gets you closer to the action, and Single Take, which curates a portfolio of intelligently edited image and video options immediately after recording, so users can instantly share their best shots and footage. Fans will also enjoy first-in-category innovations such as a 120Hz display, prograde cameras and immense battery life — at a price nobody expected. That’s where Lasizwe stepped in and shares why Samsung’s S20 FE is the smartphone of the year for people who love to express themselves. He is the SA television personality, social media personality, radio host, comedian, actor and YouTuber who has kept millions of South Africans laughing at his hilarious take on everyday life. This is a man who knows what’s popular, which is why he had to share his thoughts on the Galaxy S20 FE. “You joking? This was my first reaction to the Galaxy S20 FE, because it’s filled with features you would expect from a much more expensive phone. This phone takes performance to a new level. It’s got what I’d want to use to create content for my own YouTube channel, including all-day battery power and rapid performance. “There is, of course, the big plus for content creation — prograde cameras with artificial intelligence helping you with lighting, day and night, and Single Take, where you can record a scene for up to 15 seconds and instantly have a variety of videos and pictures. These are automatically created and waiting for you. That’s smart. It’s just filled with features. “Most PC monitors have 60Hz refresh rate, but S20 FE has 120Hz that gives you the smoothest motion, which is incredibly fast to your touch. I can see a lot of people wanting it. It has everything you need in terms of power, performance and play and is still affordable. Now that’s value that few smartphones can beat!” The images shown are for illustration purposes only and may differ from the actual product. Product specifications may vary by country, region, model and carrier. Internet speeds vary as per service provider and connection. This article was paid for by Samsung.