The US Supreme Court late on Wednesday backed Christian and Jewish houses of worship challenging New York state's latest restrictions in novel coronavirus hot spots. The court on a 5-4 vote granted requests made by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn and two Orthodox Jewish congregations. The order marked one of the first consequential actions on the court of President Donald Trump's new appointee, conservative Justice Amy Coney Barrett, who cast a deciding vote in favour of the religious groups. Conservative Chief Justice John Roberts dissented along with the court's three liberals. —Reuters The impasse between traditional leaders and government over reopening initiation schools nationally ramped up on Wednesday as the national working committee (NWC) of Contralesa told traditional leaders and parents to start preparing for the summer circumcision season. Speaking after a NWC meeting on Wednesday, Contralesa general secretary and ANC MP Zolani Mkiva said traditional leaders still held the view that the summer initiation season should be allowed, under strict guidelines and regulations. “We cannot allow a situation wherein initiation rites are singled out under alert level 1 as the only ritual that must not happen. If we continue with the suspension of initiation rites, we believe that it will cause more harm than solve the challenges caused by the outbreak of the Covid-19,” Mkiva said. India recorded 44,489 new coronavirus infections, data from the health ministry showed on Thursday, the 19th straight day that single-day cases have stayed below the 50,000 mark. India's coronavirus tally now stands at 9.27 million, the second-highest in the world, after the United States. Deaths rose by 524, taking the total to 135,223. —Reuters More than 60.05 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 1,415,428​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019.