Democrat Joe Biden captured the US presidency on Saturday as voters narrowly rebuffed Republican incumbent Donald Trump's tumultuous leadership and embraced Biden's promise to fight the coronavirus pandemic and fix the economy in a divided nation. Following are reactions from world leaders: (statements or tweets unless otherwise stated) “On behalf of the Government of Canada, I congratulate Joe Biden and Kamala Harris on their election as the next president and vice-president of the US of America. Canada and the US enjoy an extraordinary relationship — one that is unique on the world stage.” “I look forward to working with President-elect Biden, Vice President-elect Harris, their administration, and the US Congress as we tackle the world’s greatest challenges together.” “I look forward to future co-operation with President Biden. Our transatlantic friendship is irreplaceable if we are to master the great challenges of our time.” “We look forward to working with the next US administration. We want to invest in our co-operation, for a transatlantic restart and a New Deal.” “Congratulations to Joe Biden on his election as President of the US and to Kamala Harris on her historic achievement. “The US is our most important ally and I look forward to working closely together on our shared priorities, from climate change to trade and security.” “The Americans have chosen their President. Congratulations @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris! We have a lot to do to overcome today's challenges. Let's work together!” “I offer warmest congratulations to Joe Biden on his election as the 46th President of the US. Ireland takes pride in Joe Biden's election, just as we are proud of all the generations of Irish women and Irish men and their ancestors whose toil and genius have enriched the diversity that powers America.” “Congratulations to @JoeBiden @KamalaHarris! Ukraine is optimistic about the future of the strategic partnership with the US. Ukraine and the US have always collaborated on security, trade, investment, democracy, fight against corruption. Our friendship becomes only stronger!” “On behalf of the Dutch cabinet I would like to congratulate @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris with their election victory after a close race. I am looking forward to continue the strong bond between our countries, and hope to speak with him about these matters soon.” “On behalf of the Norwegian government, I congratulate Joe Biden on his election victory. The US is Norway's most important ally and we work closely together in many areas. “The world needs American leadership to solve the major global challenges. We look forward to co-operating with the Biden administration at the United Nations Security Council, and in efforts to combat the coronavirus pandemic and climate change.” “We will have a US President who is interested in Europe and doesn't want to set us against each other.” “The American people have chosen the 46th President of the US. Congratulations @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris. We wish you good luck and all the best. We are looking forward to co-operating with you to tackle the challenges ahead of us,” he said. “Record citizen participation, strong institutions and a President-elect @JoeBiden with a first woman to ever hold the position of Vice-President @KamalaHarris. Looking forward to working together” “Congratulations to US President-Elect @JoeBiden. Joe Biden has been a true friend of Greece and I'm certain that under his presidency the relationship between our countries will grow even stronger.”