During the process of counting votes, US President Donald Trump has called the presidential elections a "major fraud". Trump's Twitter timeline has been flooded with rants and accusations about fraud and the violation of America's democracy since the polls closed on Tuesday. In an interview with Reuters, disinformation expert Nina Jankowicz discussed whether there is any evidence of voter fraud warranting a lawsuit. LISTEN | Donald Trump calls US elections a ‘major fraud Subscribe for free: iono.fm | Spotify | Apple Podcasts | Pocket Casts | Player.fm US President Donald Trump's spiritual advisor Paula White has left social media users in stitches after calling on angels from Africa and South America to help Trump win the election. During a live stream on Thursday, White can be heard speaking in tongues and calling upon angels to stop “demonic confederacies” who were trying to "steal" the presidential election from Trump. Trump is going head-to-head with former Vice-President Joe Biden for president. Both candidates need 270 electoral college votes to win. US President Donald Trump has again spoken out against Twitter’s terms of use policy. As the tight race in the 2020 US presidential elections continues, Trump has been accused of spreading misinformation through his Twitter account. The US president, who has 88.3 million followers on the social media platform, has falsely claimed election victory, said Democrats are guilty of voter fraud and accused his opposition of rigging the election with “illegal votes”. Backers of President Donald Trump, some carrying guns, ramped up demonstrations on Thursday night against what he has baselessly called a rigged election, in battleground states where votes were still being counted. The demonstrations were largely peaceful, although Trump supporters occasionally shouted with counter protesters. Trump says the election is being stolen but there has been no evidence of fraud. In Arizona, one of the closely contested states in the too-close-to-call race between Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden, Trump and Biden supporters briefly scuffled outside the Maricopa County Elections Department in Phoenix. The United States is more than a one man show and good losers are more important for the working of democracy than great winners, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Friday in an interview with the Funke media group. "The USA is more than a one-man show. Those who continue to add fuel to the fire in the current situation are acting irresponsibly," Maas said in the interview, which appeared in Berliner Morgenpost and other newspapers. - Reuters Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden gained more ground on President Donald Trump in the battleground states of Georgia and Pennsylvania on Friday, edging closer to the White House hours after Trump falsely claimed the election was being “stolen” from him. A federal judge denied an emergency request from US President Donald Trump's campaign on Thursday to stop ballot counting in Philadelphia so long as Republican observers were not present. Trump's campaign had sued Philadelphia County's Board of Elections earlier in the day to seek an emergency injunction. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden gained more ground on President Donald Trump in the battleground states of Georgia and Pennsylvania on Friday, edging closer to the White House hours after Trump falsely claimed the election was being "stolen" from him. Biden had a 253 to 214 lead in the state-by-state Electoral College vote that determines the winner, according to most major television networks, and was inching toward securing the 270 votes needed to win the state-by-state Electoral College in four undecided swing states. Biden, 77, would become the next president by winning Pennsylvania, or by winning two out of the trio of Georgia, Nevada and Arizona. Trump's likeliest path appeared narrower - he needed to hang onto both Pennsylvania and Georgia and also to overtake Biden in either Nevada or Arizona. In Pennsylvania, which has 20 electoral votes, Biden cut Trump's lead to just over 18,000 by the early hours of Friday, while his deficit in Georgia, which has 16 electoral votes, shrunk to about 650. - Reuters Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg hit back at Donald Trump on Twitter late on Thursday saying the US president should "chill" about the election, a repost to his tweet last year mocking the teenager over what he called her anger management issues. Commenting on Trump tweeting "STOP THE COUNT!" on Thursday, as the election race in the United States went to the wire, 17-year-old Thunberg tweeted: "So ridiculous. Donald must work on his Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Donald, Chill!" Backers of President Donald Trump ramped up demonstrations on Thursday night against an election they believe was rigged or being stolen, in some cases bringing guns or clashing with counter-protesters as they rallied in battleground states. The dollar steadied against many currencies on Friday but traders say more losses are likely as a contentious US presidential election diminished hopes for large stimulus to support the economy any time soon. Investors are betting that Democrat Joe Biden will become the next president but Republicans will retain control of the Senate, which will make it difficult for the Democrats to pass the larger fiscal spending package they have been pushing. Biden maintains an edge over President Donald Trump, but a few important states are still counting votes and Trump is mounting legal challenges to vote counts, so there is still a high degree of uncertainty. The dollar index against a basket of six major currencies stood at 92.641, close to a two-week low. For the week, the dollar index was down 1.5%, on course for its biggest drop in almost four months. -Reuters The US Postal Service said about 1,700 ballots had been identified in Pennsylvania at processing facilities during two sweeps Thursday and were in the process of being delivered to election officials.In a court filing early Friday, USPS said about 1,070 ballots, had been found at the USPS Philadelphia Processing and Distribution Center. About 300 were found at the Pittsburgh processing center, 266 at a Lehigh Valley facility and others found at other Pennsylvania processing centers. Ballots must be received by Friday evening in Pennsylvania in order to be counted. The vote for the US president remains extremely close and Pennsylvania is one of the states that remains undecided. - Reuters EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi has slammed the heated protests which have erupted across the US this week as Americans wait to find out who will be their next president. CNN's Van Jones expresses concern after Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) defended President Donald Trump's baseless claims of voter fraud. Former Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) reacts to President Donald Trump's address from the White House press briefing room. Santorum said it was "very disappointing and shocking" to hear the allegations and hoped Republicans would defend the election's integrity. State judges tossed out both lawsuits on Thursday. James Bass, a Superior Court judge in Georgia, said there was “no evidence” that the ballots in question were invalid. In the Michigan case, Judge Cynthia Stephens said: “I have no basis to find that there is a substantial likelihood of success on the merits.” A Trump campaign spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment on the Michigan and Georgia rulings.