June 1 2020 - 3:15pm Covid-19: SA death toll passes 700, cases increase to more than 34,000 An additional 1,674 cases of Covid-19 have been recorded in SA in the last 24 hours. In a statement on Monday afternoon, the health ministry said that there were now 34,357 cases of the respiratory illness. There were also an additional 22 deaths recorded in the last 24-hour cycle - all of them in the Western Cape. Western Cape community safety minister Albert Fritz on Monday welcomed feedback from the national secretary of police confirming that Neighbourhood Watches (NHW) would be able to operate under level 3 of the lockdown. He said it had been confirmed during a meeting on Monday between officials of the department of community safety (DoCS) and the national secretary of police, that the restrictions placed on NHWs had been lifted under alert level 3. He said that within the targeted Covid-19 hotspot areas, NHWs would be deployed to assist in: “The presence of NHWs will serve to prevent crime. During the lockdown, we have seen an increase in vandalism of schools and shop robberies, in rural and urban communities alike. "I have heard the call of the many NHWs and Community Police Forums (CPFs) who have raised their hands and offered their support during this difficult period and am pleased to announce that NHW may now operate,” said Fritz. The Competition Tribunal on Monday found a Pretoria-based company guilty of hiking up the prices of face masks between January 31 and March 5. Babelegi Workwear and Industrial Supplies CC was fined R76,000. This is the country's first contested excessive pricing case in the context of Covid-19, as other companies reached consent agreements with the commission after admitting guilt for excessive pricing. – Ernest Mabuza More to follow on TimesLIVE. Shopping queues for alcohol continued to stretch for miles during the lunch hour on Monday, the first day of that liquor could be legally purchased since the start of lockdown. Scenes of stockpiling contrasted with happy shoppers who bought their drink of choice in various centres. Durban's thirsty residents came out in full force when liquor outlets threw open their doors for business on Monday, with some splurging up to R3,000 in savings for the occasion. The Gauteng Liquor Forum, which represents taverns across the province, called for drinkers to adopt a sober approach. "We call on all our customers to consume their alcohol responsibly and to report all alcohol-related lawlessness to the appropriate authorities,” said Fanny Mokoena, its president. A large portion of its members will not be able to trade immediately, due to a lack of funds needed to prepare their trading places adequately and to stock up sufficiently, said Mokoena. As a consequence, the forum remained concerned about illicit traders. “We are still very concerned about the existence of the illicit alcohol trade, which boomed while our members were complying with the lockdown regulations. We urge the Minister of Police to crack down on these operators, as they continue to threaten our livelihoods.” There was near pandemonium at the Paradise Liquor store in Nyanga, Cape Town, where customers had gathered before dawn. Siya Mcuthwana, one of the store employees, said scores of people had arrived long before opening time at 9am. “I went out to feed my dog and found a snaking queue outside,” said Mcuthwana. “They pestered me to open for them. They complained that they were very thirsty. Some said their throats were as dry as the desert and they are tired of drinking coffee which they are not used to. They complained that unscrupulous people charged them R500 for a bottle of brandy at the height of the lockdown. “Some people left bricks here to indicate their position in the queue while they did their household chores. The lockdown has been very tough. We lost our girlfriends because we couldn’t provide for them.” Some customers shoved each other as they scrambled to get into the narrow entrance. Social distancing was kicked to the curb. Many customers did not wear masks, there was no sanitizer at the entrance and temperatures were not taken. All age groups were represented. One of the customers, who declined to be named, shouted: “I would rather die from corona than die from thirst. We have been deprived of our right to drink for far too long. We just want to buy alcohol and leave.” Siphokazi Mnyama, an elderly customer, negotiated to be spared a long wait in the queue. She wore her mask inside out. “I had sent my child to come and queue for me but she is not here now. I don’t know where  she is,” said Siganga. “I woke up at 8am because they said they will open at 9am. I was surprised to see such a long queue. You would swear they are queuing for an old age grant – but we are all here for booze.” Mandisa Siganga bought six crates of beer. She was running a shebeen on her property. “We are happy that liquor is being sold again,” she said. “We are going to have an income now. We did not receive the groceries that the government doled out for poor people, only a few got them. We are going back to business now. - TimesLIVE and Philani Nombembe Parents and community members in Bishop Lavis on the Cape Flats picketed outside Bergville Primary School on Monday. They expressed concern that the reopening of schools will put their children in danger, as well as the health of teachers. Agricultural group TLU SA on Monday admonished government for its Sunday pronouncements. "We are very disappointed in the government’s insistence to host media conferences and meetings around Covid-19 on Sundays,” said Louis Meintjes, the president of TLU SA. “President [Cyril] Ramaphosa goes to the trouble of announcing a day of prayer, but then the government breaks the Sabbath on that very same day. “The power of prayer is probably more important at the moment than some of the ridiculous and senseless regulations. The government must stop standing in the way of the faithful who want to praise God Almighty – on Sundays – and want to treat the day as holy.” Social Development minister Lindiwe Zulu is hosting a virtual meeting with children from all nine provinces on Monday afternoon to hear their thoughts on the Covid-19 pandemic. "As the coronavirus pandemic continues to spread across South Africa causing major disruptions in family life, concerns about the safety and wellbeing of children has significantly increased, with many of them currently out of school for an extended period of time and unable to play with their friends in their neighborhoods," her office said. "To give children a voice in this unprecedented time," Zulu would ask them to share their lived experience on issues affecting their lives such as home/online schooling, living under lockdown and measures that government and civil society organisations can put in place to ensure their protection." The virtual meeting between the minister and selected child ambassadors is held in celebration of the International Children’s Day, held on 1 June every year to draw attention to children’s rights as enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child The meeting will be held between 3pm-4pm. Only 16 grade 7 pupils arrived for school at Hlengisa Primary School in Nyanga, Cape Town, on Monday. Sandile Martin, the school governing body member responsible for safety and security, said 118 other pupils had stayed away. Martin said basic education minister Angie Motshekga’s announcement that schools would not open on Monday and Western Cape education MEC Debbie Schäfer’s confirmation that schools in the province “will be open to receive learners” had caused confusion in the community. “This school is not ready start teaching,” said Martin. “The school was not fumigated to prepare for the reopening. We are waiting on the provincial department to send the necessary equipment. Overall, we are not satisfied with the way the provincial department has handled the reopening. We expected that masks for kids, teachers and non-teaching staff would have been delivered by today. We are yet to receive them. If nothing is delivered by 12pm, we will take action as parents.” School principal Mzimkhulu Qwaka, said only three teachers were absent out of a staff complement of 37. He said the school had prepared seven classrooms for pupils to ensure social distancing. “Only a few kids came in today,” said Qwaka. “Some of them arrived very early, others were brought by their parents. I was here yesterday to ensure that the classrooms are clean and ready to receive the learners.” Schäfer conceded on Sunday that some schools in the province may not be ready on Monday but added that the province had “pulled out all the stops” to ensure most schools were ready. - Philani Nombembe South African National Civic Organisation Sundays River subregion chairperson Mxolisi April wants the Life Esidimeni Care Centre in Kirkwood to be closed. This follows seven deaths recorded among the 29 patients and six employees infected at the psychiatric facility. “This is a small town and the staff members use public transport to move back and forth between work and the communities where they live. “The hospital is the epicentre of the virus in this town and it should be closed.” The facility has 600 patients. “We assure you that we are following the department of health and National Institute for Communicable Diseases protocols and guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus within our facility,” a spokesperson said. 1,600 schools in KZN not ready to open If a school is not ready on June 8, it will not be opened, says KwaZulu-Natal education MEC Kwazi Mshengu. Efforts will be made this week to ensure supplies are delivered. In some cases where schools are not ready, pupils may be moved to other schools, he said. As of Friday last week, 4,400 of 6,000 schools were ready in the province. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga has stressed the importance of schooling resuming on Monday June 8, while acknowledging the furore the postponement of Sunday's briefing had caused on the eve of the expected reopening this week. "I am hopeful that all outstanding challenges they unearthed, will be addressed; and we can be able to have effective learning and teaching from 08 June 2020. Any further delays, pose a serious threat to the system and the future our learners are yearning for," the minister said. "Provinces are now putting the shoulder to wheel to ensure that all prerequisites not yet fulfilled, will be delivered within [this] week." Progress will be reviewed on Thursday. Customers at a Liquor City shop in Johannesburg waited patiently in a long queue on Monday morning to buy their booze. Meanwhile, in Centurion in Tshwane, one woman was spotted with a laptop propped up in her shopping trolley, assumingly working while waiting. Simon Mphahlele, manager of the Phomolong Taxi rank in Atteridgeville, said the strict level 3 regulations would make commuters late for work. "We only carry 70% as stated in the regulations but passengers are complaining. They say they are getting late but there is nothing we can do, we can't break the law." Mphahlele said there had been an increase in the number of passengers needing transport, making it very difficult for taxi operators. Sarah Baloyi, who returned to work on Monday, said she had to wait more than an hour for a taxi. "We are getting late on our first day, we don't have taxis and when they are carrying only 10 passengers, we are being more late. Then we have to wait for another taxi which must first drop passengers at Midrand and come back again," she said. Itumeleng Chauke agreed. "It's going to be difficult to explain at work why I am late," said the 38-year-old. "Things have changed from last week, I see the same thing happening even tomorrow and it's worse because our bosses are even strict now." A Durban customer, who joined the queues from early morning, said he was extremely "thirsty". "I'm here to buy gin and whisky. "Alcohol didn't bring the virus, so why ban it? I can't wait to crack open my bottles tonight. "The last time I drank was before lockdock. So it's going to be a celebration." Hazel Sithole, 39, said she arrived at Atteridgville plaza at about 5am. "I couldn't sleep. When I got here, there was no one, so I had to wait a little bit outside the mall but when I got in I realised that it was only mall staff and I was the only customer, so I had to go back home to wait a little bit because I was afraid that people would think that I was crazy for waking up early for alcohol," she said. Sithole, who is a nurse working in a Covid-19 ward, was excited to be number one on the long queue. "I am very very happy, my friends are even calling me and they can't believe that I am number one. I am even willing to spend R1000," she said. Her job was very stressful, she added. "I am going to release the stress of this virus. I am scared for my children but I try very hard to keep them safe. Now that I have found my fix I will be thinking straight," she said. In a queue where social distancing was hardly observed, anxious shoppers waited their turn to get into the Beyers Naude Liquor City in Johannesburg. A man who asked not to be named said he was planning to stock up for the entire month. “I’m just here for the wine. This has affected my entire life. I work, so quarantine was not that bad for me. It’s more of an inconvenience than a bad thing. “I’ve run out of alcohol since lockdown started, I just had to deal with it. I’m here early because I know it will be crazy during the day,” he said. John Jardine, owner of Liquor City on Beyers Naude Avenue in Johannesburg, said shoppers were on their best behaviour. “Only 40 people are allowed inside, it’s a small store. If anyone were to show a high temperature, we intend to turn them away kindly. “So far its been good, people are used to the protocols. Our first campers came here around 6am,” Jardine said. Prudence Kgathuke, 23, said she was disappointed with the regulations at the liquor shop at Atteridgeville plaza in Tshwane which only allows for the sale of two cases per customer. "I am disappointed because they are saying two cases per customer, which is only 24. I thought that I was going to stock up a lot but it's the law, so there is nothing we can do." She said during the lockdown, she was forced to buy from those who were selling at an expensive price. "I will gulp down the first one just like water, I can't wait to feel that wetness in my throat," she said. She was excited before entering the store and had said that she was going to stock up on Savanna only to be disappointed by the shop's regulations. "I was happy when I got here and discovered that I was number three, it was like a happy new year," she said. Besides the long winding shopping queues at liquor stores, west of Johannesburg, patrons also had to manoeuvre their way through the parking lot in search of parking. Parking bays closest to the door were quickly occupied. “Ey, it’s busy my suster,” replied a parking assistant walking back to the store, pushing a trolley. He said the lockdown had led car guards to losing a large amount of income. He hoped that with people being generous in their buying of booze, they would also be as generous in tipping them. Patrons eager to quench their thirst after two months of the closure of liquor outlets on Monday said they had learnt their lesson and would be stockpiling on booze to ensure they never ran out again. Patricia Oberholzer, who had joined the winding queue at the Makro in Strubens Valley, west of Johannesburg, said: “When the lockdown started, we didn’t know we would go this long without alcohol. Today, when I buy, I want to buy enough to last me for a while just in case the government puts us back on lockdown level five again." Hundreds of people, clad in masks had joined the line ahead of Oberholzer, with some preparing to spend quite a while outside before being let in. “I came with a van to stock. I want to buy ciders, beers, gin and vodka,” said Thato Mashego from Soweto. He was making his purchases for himself and others who had been unable to come to the shops. “I charged them just a small amount for the service,” Mashego said with a laugh. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga at a much awaited media briefing on Monday morning said she spent most of the weekend consulting with school stakeholders. "I really wanted to apologise whole-heartedly," she said, referring to the postponement of the reopening of schools. "We decided, let's use this week to mop up... and there were different views," she said. Schools who were ready to start on Monday should use the week for induction and orientation, said Motshekga. While South Africans queued outside liquor stores to celebrate level three of the national lockdown, a private school in Durban ignored an instruction from the government not to resume teaching. It was all systems go at Clinton School, a private school in Durban, as matric students queued at the various gates to get disinfected and given masks. The school's executive headmaster Dave Knowles said that they were expecting 80% of their learners to return while the rest had the option to continue with online classes. Students Jeremy Ives and James Stachen went easy on the batch of beer they bought for the duration of the lockdown, but with the lockdown extentions they too ran out. At Tops Spar in Vredehoek in Cape Town, a steady queue, with physical distancing measures in place, fed customers into the bottlestore. Two bottles of red, two bottles of white, a few bottles of hard liquor, and a case of beer is the quota, and many people make sure to fill it, likely weary of government's recent tendency to renege on certain announcements such as the opening of schools and the unbanning of cigarettes. "We were using our stock sparingly. We're studying, so every now and again I'd treat myself," said Ives. A doorman at the liquor store sprayed each customer's hands with disinfectant and made sure that not too many people were in the store at the same time. He said one of the first customers to arrive was so thirsty he opened his first bottle as he got into the driver's seat to take his consignment home. Shelves that were fully stocked this morning were close to empty at the Melville Liquor store in Johannesburg just before 11am on Monday. A shop assistant who did not want to be named, explained how he and his colleagues had to report to work earlier than usual to stock the shelves. Customers at the Ferndale Liquor City in Randburg observed social distancing as they waited in a queue to get into the store. Each customer was sanitised and given a peg before being allowed into the shop. "I'm obviously happy because I can't link alcohol with the virus. I understand why the government did not allow tarvens to operate because people would chill there," said a customer who did not want to be named. He said he survived the alcohol ban "through the black market" but did not want to divulge how much money he spent in total. "We can't talk those figures. It's bad. For instance, a bottle you'd get here for R200, you spent between R600 and R800 in the black market." Happiness Murudu said she was happy she could buy alcohol again. She said she woke up early to go to the liquor store. "I was working throughout the night, so I decided to just come here early in the morning. "I'm happy that the shops are open. What I bought will last me a month," she said. An elated Stoffel Buys, who filled his bakkie with beer and brandy, said he had bought enough alcohol to last him a day. "I will come back tomorrow for another bakkie load," Buys chuckled. He said he had also spent a "lot" of money on alcohol he bought through the black market. Trust Kobe took a day off to be able to buy alcohol on Monday morning. The 22-year-old first when to Nkomo village complex in Atteridgeville, Pretoria but turned back because the queues were too long. "I asked for leave on Thursday. I had to plan it properly last week, so I will go back to work with a doctor's note. I know that there is a special, I even did some research and tried to also check how many I can buy," he said. He said although he preferred drinking at a club as it was more fun, he planned to adhere to the regulations of drinking at home. "I will adapt to the changes of drinking at home, the problem is that when you get drunk at home you go to sleep but at the club you get drunk and dance," he said. The queue into Tops at Melville moved steadily as shoppers were let in five people at a time. Car guards on the site - who did not want to be named - said that the queue had been this long since before 9am this morning. "People are so excited to be standing in the queue to buy alcohol, there is even a nice happy vibe in the air", said one car guard. Lwazi Ntuli, 36, let off a huge sigh after being told he had to join a queue of about a dozen people outside Tops at Spar in Umlazi's Mega City Mall, south of Durban. "No man, you're joking," he tells a Spar employee taking customers' temperatures at the entrance. "I knew it was going to be a long wait, but this is just crazy." Ntuli said he had taken some time off work to get a few "essentials" - what he referred to as booze for himself and his wife. Sthembiso Cwele, 29, said he was preparing for a lockdown level 3 party. A cheerful Cwele spent R1500 on liquor which he said would last him two days. "We'll abide by the law and drink at home. That doesn't mean we can't have a good time." He didn't agree with government's decision to ban alcohol. "Whether we want to drink or not, that is our choice. Government cannot tell us we can't drink. When they want our votes they come running, so they must know who keeps them in power," he said. A woman, who did not want to be named, said she didn't mind the long wait while she joined the back of the queue. "You see alcohol, I won't complain to stand in this line, but just ask me to go to home affairs, then you will hear me complain," she said. "I needed this, it's been a while, hey," says a man who did not want to be named. Standing outside the Checkers liquor store in Kloof street in Cape Town, he said he had bought two six-pack beers and gin. He reckons it would last him for the day. "I don't want to drink every day... I want to drink today, just a welcoming [drink]," he added. Customers at the Ferndale Liquor City in Randburg, Gauteng, observed social distancing  rules while they waited in a queue to enter the store. Every customer is sanitised and given a peg before being allowed into the shop. A customer who did not want to be named said he was relieved liquor stores were open. "I'm obviously happy because I can't link alcohol with the virus. I understand why the government did not allow taverns to operate because people would chill there." In a queue where social distancing was not widely observed, anxious shoppers waited their turn to enter the Beyers Naude Liqour City. The man who asked not to be named said he was planning to stock up for the entire month. “I’m just here for the wine. This has affected my entire life. I work so quarantine was not that bad for me. It’s more of an inconvenience than a bad thing. “I’ve ran out of alcohol since lockdown started, I just had to deal with it. I’m here early because I know it will be crazy during the day.” he said. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga is at the receiving end of criticism after she postponed a briefing on the reopening of schools for pupils in grades 7 and 12. The minister was set to address the nation at 4pm on Sunday, but this was postponed to 6pm. Parents and pupils were later informed the briefing had been postponed again, to 11am on Monday. This as Motshekga was being engaged further regarding the readiness of schools to host pupils and teachers, TimesLIVE reported. As the lockdown eases and more South Africans go back to work under level 3 on Monday, many jobs hang in the balance, including those in the construction and courier businesses. For courier company Times Freight, which has about 90 branches and 1,400 employees, this might be the end of the road. Group CEO Iain Johnson said regrettably, the board had decided that it had no choice but to commence a formal consultation process which could lead to the potential closure of Time Freight. “Time Freight was in a fragile position prior to the advent of Covid-19 and the government decreed the lockdown. The market in which it operates had become increasingly difficult and competitive over the last few years and this, when set against an already challenging and weak economic environment in SA, meant that the business required radical change in order to survive,” said Johnson. Aisha Pandor’s cleaning company Sweep South, an app for domestic helpers, is finally open for business again on Monday after nearly 70 days of complete shutdown. Staff at the company have been severely affected by the shutdown as some of the lowest earners in the country with no work meaning no way of earning income. The company was able, through millions of rand in donations, to give each of the workers a stipend but Pandor said 96% of the 5,000 active domestic workers were keen to get back to work. Pandor, however, said they had to tick a few boxes before work could start on Monday. “First, we had to ask if the ladies were comfortable to resume work and 96% of them said they were.” Many citizens aren't in the mood for social distancing, masks and gloves outside bottle stores, it seems. Drive-throughs, virtual tastings and online liquor shopping are set to be the “new normal”. More and more people are lining up outside liquor stores, across the country to purchase their choice of poison following government's decision to lift the sale of alcohol under level 3. Some are wearing masks and clear social distancing measures in sight. More than 1,700 new coronavirus cases were recorded by the health ministry between Saturday and Sunday evening. The health ministry on Sunday said it had recorded 1,716 new cases, bringing the total infection toll to 32,683 cases. “Regrettably, we report 40 more Covid-19-related deaths,” read a statement from the office of health minister Zweli Mkhize. As SA prepares for a Covid-19 surge, a simple medical technique may save lives. It's called proning, and it's been around for decades.