The gloves came off on Thursday after suspended Cricket South Africa (CSA) chief executive officer Thabang Moroe reported for duty and accused the governing body’s president Chris Nenzani of contravening the organisation’s disciplinary procedures during the process of his suspension. Moroe said in a lawyer’s letter addressed to Nenzani and CSA on June 8 that is in SowetanLIVE's possession that the president was in contravention of clause 11.2.2 of the CSA’s Disciplinary Codes and Procedures when he suspended the CEO through a phone call on December 5 last year without indicating the length of the suspension nor serving him with a letter of suspension. It is understood that Moroe’s access card was deactivated upon his suspension and management inside the organisation’s Melrose Estate premises had to be alerted of his presence at the gates. After waiting outside‚ Moroe was finally let in. “We should note at this point that‚ the suspension of our client via a telephone by Mr Nenzani in this regard‚ was in direct contravention of the CSA’s Disciplinary Codes and Procedures‚ particularly clause 11.2.2‚” the letter said. Clause 11.2.2 of CSA’s disciplinary code states: Through his lawyers‚ Moroe also accused Nenzani of having not given him an opportunity to give reasons as to why he should not suspended‚ as per the organisation’s policy. SowetanLIVE understands that Moroe only got a suspension letter in late January. According to Moroe’s lawyers‚ Nenzani was allegedly in contravention of the CSA disciplinary code when he informed the CEO through another phone call that the suspension would last for six months dating back to December 5. “In this instance again Mr Nenzani‚ persisted in flouting clause 11.2.2 of the CSA’s Disciplinary Codes and Procedures.” CSA had until the end of business on June 9 to respond to the letter. Attempts to get comment from CSA’s spokesperson Thami Mthembu drew a blank but Nenzani said CSA’s board would be meeting later on Thursday night‚ from where they’ll issue a statement “The Board of Directors of Cricket South Africa (CSA) will be issuing a statement later (on Thursday) to bring the media up to date on various matters‚” a statement said CSA’s acting CEO Dr Jacques Faul said he couldn’t comment on the matter. “In my secondment agreement‚ I’m restricted in terms dealing with matters related to the suspended CEO. I can’t deal with anything related to the suspended CEO‚” Faul said.