Pietermaritzburg's city hall was closed on Monday after a staff member tested positive for Covid-19. "A notice is hereby given that the city hall building will be closed on Monday. "This is to allow for the process of disinfection to take place as a result of a staff member having tested positive for Covid-19," Msunduzi Municipality said in a statement. Sheperd Bushiri’s Enlightened Christian Gathering (ECG) church has denied that it is selling hand sanitiser for R500. The leader of the ECG church made the top trending list after a post of hand sanitisers with his image was circulated on social media. The post claimed the sanitiser was “very effective” and contained “80% Holy Spirit and 20% alcohol”. The University of KwaZulu-Natal will begin the first phase of opening its doors to a select cohort of students from June 29. UKZN spokesperson Normah Zondo said the logistics and planning for the return of students and staff “are complex and has to be undertaken both carefully and systematically”. Zondo said the university would stagger the return of students. Almost 10 weeks after the deadly beating of Collins Khosa, witnesses say they are yet to be interviewed by the defence force. One of them, his brother-in-law, recounts the horrific incident. My name is Thulani Maxwell Msibande. I am 36 years old and I am from Mutale in Limpopo, but have spent most of my life in Johannesburg. I came to the city in the early 21st century. We all travel to secure a better life or in search of knowledge and wisdom, and it was the pursuit of entrepreneurship that brought me here. Folovhodwe, the community in Mutale, was doing nothing to try to combat unemployment and corrupt government. I was 16 but I had big dreams and big goals with no support structure. Commuters were left stranded across Gauteng and some roads were barricaded as the SA National Taxi Council (Santaco) embarked on a strike on Monday to protest against a R1bn government relief package for the industry. The council said in a letter “we were expecting at least R20,000 per vehicle” but would receive significantly less out of the package announced by transport minister Fikile Mbalula. Police and soldiers were deployed to clear some blocked roads, leading to an early morning gridlock, while frustrated commuters faced being crammed together in whatever transport they could find. The SA Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) has asked the provincial education department to shut all Eastern Cape schools because of “perpetual challenges”. In a move to find common ground with the union, provincial education superintendent-general Themba Kojana asked at the weekend to meet the union’s leaders on Tuesday. The union’s provincial executive committee convened last Wednesday and wrote to Kojana on Thursday evening, asking him to close schools because they face a multilayered crisis. Medics who have spent their last few weeks dealing with gravely ill patients suffering from Covid-19 have expressed their desire to make it a criminal offence for any person to be caught in public without a mask. The Competition Commission says it expects food prices to fall and has vowed to monitor retailers to make sure savings are passed on to consumers. The commission’s acting spokesperson, Siyabulela Makunga, said the commission had been vigilant in responding to consumer complaints of price increases for essential food products. Makunga said market factors, including the rand’s 25% depreciation in March, initially pushed food prices up during the lockdown, but these were now being reversed. Dexamethasone, a steroid drug manufactured in SA, has been dominating news headlines after a UK study revealed its effects in reducing deaths among critically ill Covid-19 patients.