Communications, telecommunications and postal services minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams has resumed her duties after being placed on special leave for violating the lockdown regulations. Ndabeni-Abrahams was put on two months' special leave with one month's salary docked by President Cyril Ramaphosa for violating the regulations in April. She was later charged with contravention of regulation 11 B of the Disaster Management Act. In a heartfelt letter to her staff on Tuesday, she said that she had used the time to reflect on her journey and navigating through the Covid-19 pandemic. “We cannot adhere to social distancing and hygiene standards in a place where 20 people share a single toilet.” For community leader Patrick Plaatjies, the problem of the communal toilets in the informal settlement in Kliptown, where he lives, has only got worse during the Covid-19 epidemic, in spite of promises made by the authorities. “The residents use bucket communal toilets, which sometimes go uncleaned for weeks. There are no wipes or sanitisers so we can hardly practise safety protocols,” says Plaatjies. Higher education minister Blade Nzimande addressed the media on Tuesday about the phased return of students, NSFAS and screening as a means to combat the spread of Covid-19. An impressive bit of geo-mapping kit used to fight Ebola is now a vital part of SA’s Covid-19 arsenal. It's currently flexing its muscle in Mpumalanga, homing in on hot spots. One of the Eastern Cape’s most important rural hospitals has become a ghost facility after doctors and nurses walked out on Monday, leaving patients to fend for themselves or rely on managers for treatment. The decision by most of the health workers at Tafalofefe Hospital in Centane to abandon their stations brought home the reality of an ongoing health crisis fuelled by a stand-off between the health department, and health workers, represented by unions, reports DispatchLIVE. It has come at a time when the province can least afford it, with the Eastern Cape second only to the Western Cape in terms of Covid-19 fatalities. The Fair Trade Independent Tobacco Association's (Fita) case is set to be heard in the Pretoria high court on Wednesday. According to Fita, the government’s “high-handed” approach to lockdown regulations, which includes the controversial smoking ban, is turning people against the lockdown. The Free Trade Independent Tobacco Association (Fita) will on Wednesday tell the full bench of the high court in Pretoria why it believes regulations prohibiting the sale of cigarettes and tobacco products should be set aside. On the other side of the court, lawyers for cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma will present arguments as to why the ban should remain in place. It has been just over a month since the association filed papers to challenge the decision to ban the sale of tobacco products during the lockdown. It took 10 hours for a virus like Covid-19 to spread from a hospital bed rail to the whole ward. And itstayed there forfive days, a new study reveals.