New law's demerit system for drivers delayed due to Covid-19: department The Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences (Aarto) Act - which among other things puts in place a points demerit system for SA's drivers - has been delayed due to Covid-19. In a statement on Tuesday, the transport department said the act was meant to take effect by "mid-2020", after it was signed into law in August 2019. However, this will no longer be the case. Motorcyclist killed after hitting car 'full of alcohol', says distraught father Twelve hours after the ban on booze sales was lifted, a motorcyclist died after ploughing into a stationary vehicle as its occupants allegedly drank alcohol on the roadside. Yusuf Sedick, 24, a truck driver from Lansdowne, in Cape Town, was on his way from work around 9pm when he collided with the car. The vehicle sped away after the crash but was found later, allegedly containing bottles of booze. A case of culpable homicide is under investigation. Testing backlogs will not hamper fight against Covid-19: Mkhize Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has moved to allay fears that a shortage of testing kits and a backlog at labs will hamper government’s efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19. Mkhize made the remarks at a press conference on Tuesday. The briefing followed his inspection of hotspots in the Western Cape. The minister announced that the country now has 35,812 confirmed Covid-19 cases, and said the death toll was yet to be confirmed for the past 24-hour reporting period. Health minister Zweli Mkhize said on Tuesday that the number of positive Covid-19 cases in the country had risen to 35,812. He was speaking during a tour of the the Sonstraal field hospital in the Western Cape, where he was inspecting preparations for an expected surge of patients in the province. He said the latest death toll would be updated later in the day. A planned march against the ban on the sale of tobacco products during the lockdown, organised by "a group of ordinary South Africans", fizzled out at the Union Buildings on Tuesday when police officers were the first to arrive at the scene. A few protesters wearing masks arrived for the protest in Pretoria, but were turned away by police who advised them their gathering was illegal. Almost 5,000 nurses and general hospital staff will be employed by the department of health in KwaZulu-Natal over the next two weeks. This is according to health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu, who on Tuesday revealed that there was dire shortage of health care workers at the province's public hospitals. “The department of health in KZN has been extremely short-staffed when it comes to professional nurses, enrolled nurses and nurse assistants.” She added that public facilities in the province didn't have enough clerks and general orderlies either. Herman Mashaba has criticised railway agency Prasa and the department of transport for its failure to use the lockdown to prepare trains for thousands of commuters who returned to work on Monday under level 3 of the lockdown. “The government has had more than nine weeks to prepare for the easing of the lockdown and level 3. Was that not the point of lockdown? To prepare?” he questioned. Mashaba was responding to a report by TimesLIVE which quoted transport minister Fikile Mbalula sayingthe railway agency was not ready to resume its operations under level 3. What's believed to be SA’s first drive-through strip club has opened its doors in Walmer, Port Elizabeth. Candy's opened on Monday and is offering drive-through shows while selling takeaway beers and snacks. The strip club also launched a new online site to help its adult entertainers make money under the lockdown. The site charges per view and chats. “Basically, they can work from home during this lockdown until the clubs, bars and restaurants open again. Who knows when this will happen?” said the club on its Facebook page. While there is no clarity about whether salons, spas and tattoo parlours will be allowed to operate during lockdown level 3, the beauty and hair industry is viewing the government's finalisation of guidelines as a sure sign of imminent reopening. The government sent a letter to the Employers Organisation for Hairdressing, Cosmetology and Beauty (EOHCB) on Monday to advise it was finalising guidelines for the reopening of the industry. In a statement on Facebook, the organisation said that because of the sensitivity and confidentiality of the matter,  the letter could not be published in full. Large quantities of personal protective equipment (PPE) have “disappeared” en route to KwaZulu-Natal schools. “The MEC for education in KwaZulu-Natal, Kwazi Mshengu, has received with shock the reports of the disappearance of large quantities of PPE in the Umlazi, Pinetown and Zululand districts. It is said that the equipment disappeared en route to circuit offices and schools,” the provincial education department said on Tuesday morning. he DA’s lawyers have written to co-operative governance & traditional affairs minister (Cogta) Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma seeking reasons for the “irrational and arbitrary” ban on reopening personal care businesses such as hairdressers — threatening to go to court if no answer is forthcoming. The party said in a statement on Tuesday that the “continued criminalisation of the personal care services industry under level 3 is irrational, arbitrary and unlawful”. The letter to Dlamini-Zuma questioned the exclusion of hairdressing, beauty treatments, make-up and nail salons and piercing and tattoo parlours from operating, saying there were more than 100,000 registered salons and a similar number of unregistered salons that employed hundreds of thousands of people. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's government faced widespread mockery on Tuesday over coronavirus rules which were cast by some media as a "sex ban", though a junior minister said the regulations were aimed at keeping people safe. Under amendments introduced to the rules on Monday, no person may participate in a gathering which takes place in a public or private place indoors, and consists of two or more persons. Britain's tabloid media cast it as a "bonking ban". "What this about is making sure we don't have people staying away from home at night," British junior housing minister Simon Clarke told LBC radio when questioned about the so called "bonking ban". As the country entered level 3 of the coronavirus lockdown on Monday, which saw millions of people returning to work, travel time restrictions being eased and liquor stores open for operation, Arrive Alive noted several incidents of arrests of drunk drivers and fatal road accidents. In one incident, a motorist lost her life in a tragic accident in Ndwedwe Mission in KwaZulu-Natal. She had been travelling with five other people when the accident occurred. Arrive Alive said members of the Reaction Unit SA (Rusa) rushed to the scene after receiving  multiple calls from the public and family of the injured reporting the accident. He has clawed his index finger to a raw and bloody mess, contemplated suicide and broken down at the airport, but thanks to his fellow South Africans in Vietnam, Ruan van Niekerk is fighting to keep it together so he can see his family again. The Jeffreys Bay resident, who was teaching English in Vietnam, spoke about the debilitating anxiety disorder he has developed, how he was surviving on one meal a day and the nightmare of not being able to return to SA because of lockdowns in both countries. A video of South Africans on a cruise ship singing for joy as they finally make their way back home has gone viral. In it, more than 20 South Africans who are making their way home can be heard and seen singing loudly and proudly, as it's only a matter of time before returning to their loved ones. The SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) has paid 116,867 destitute South Africans a grant of R350. A total of 1,597,127 applications have been disapproved since they have some or other means of income, said the agency. “We have received approximately 13 million enquiries/applications about the temporary special Covid-19 SRD grant as at Monday, 25 May 2020. About 6.3 million of these were valid complete applications. The rest were either duplicate applications, incomplete, had inconsistent data, or were just pure enquiries”, said Busisiwe Memela, Sassa CEO. Up to 28,000 passengers go through the Cape Town International Airport on a normal day. But on Monday the huge facility’s parking lot and terminals were eerily deserted​. As South Africans welcomed the easing of the lockdown to level 3 on Monday, the sale of alcohol seems to be the most celebrated aspect of this - at least judging by social media. The sale of liquor is now permitted, following the ban that was introduced when the country went into lockdown on March 27. As usual, South Africans didn’t miss an opportunity to share their humour with memes, expressing their excitement to be able to buy booze again. Millions returning to work, queues of jubilant drinkers, frustrated taxi commuters, dejected pupils, a deflated minister. That was day one of level 3, folks. Terrified moms and dads explain to Times Select why their kids won’t be going back to class. And that's no matter what the minister says.