Taxis reject Mbalula's R1.135bn relief offer and vow to start operating at full capacity All taxis will operate at full capacity from Monday, the SA National Taxi Council (Santaco) vowed on Sunday, as it rejected relief funds offered by the government. “We have decided to take the bull by the horns. We cannot have postponements on our livelihoods,” Santaco president Phillip Taaibosch told reporters. “We have decided that all provincial structures will from Monday, load 100% capacity ——whether the minister approves, or not. All long-distance taxis must resume operation. No permits will be wanted from passengers in long distance taxis,” he added. Oxygen demand surges in Gauteng as Covid-19 cases rise The Gauteng health department has seen an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases over the past two weeks, resulting in a high demand for oxygen and ventilators, it said on Sunday. The total number of confirmed cases in the province on Saturday stood at 34,285, with 8,580 recoveries and 166 deaths. Lab service dismisses fears about 'false negative' Covid-19 tests The National Health Laboratory Service has dismissed claims that there is no clinical value in the health department's strategy to test Covid-19 swabs jammed in the backlog. A group of scientists from Wits University and the University of Cape Town released a public statement last week in which they said the chances of false negatives were too high with older samples. Mpumalanga police arrested 13 people, including a 77-year-old pensioner and a councillor at Seabe village in Mmametlhake, for allegedly trying to forcefully remove pupils from schools out of fear they would contract Covid-19. Classes for grade 7 and 12 pupils resumed on June 8 across the country. The group allegedly connived with each other and went to the Dikotelo Combined, Ramoshidi and Seabe High schools in Seabe village, where they were allegedly found driving around in two cars on the school premises. The group allegedly disrupted teaching and learning and pulled children from classes on Thursday. The total number of Covid-19 deaths stood at 2,413 on Saturday, with 131,800 confirmed cases. This is a 7,210 jump in the number of confirmed cases from the last report by the national health department. Santaco is expected to outline a way foward in resolving differences between the council and government after transport minister Fikile Mbalula postponed his meeting with the taxi industry on two occassions.