Employment & labour minister Thulas Nxesi has appointed auditors to follow the trail of money paid to companies since the start of the lockdown after it emerged that some had allegedly failed to pay employees. The ministry on Monday appealed to companies not to take advantage of money  earmarked for employees. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Gauteng is 11,164 — with 3,348 recoveries and 81 deaths. The provincial health department said in an update on Monday that out of a total of 19,359 contacts, 13,170 people had completed the14-day monitoring period with no symptoms reported and were therefore deisolated. A raft of EU nations reopened their borders to fellow Europeans on Monday after months of coronavirus curbs, but China was battling a new outbreak that has stoked fears of a second wave. As caseloads have declined in recent weeks across many parts of Europe, governments have been keen to ease painful lockdowns that have saved lives but devastated economies and wearied confined populations. -AFP Some Mpumalanga community members are to blame for dozens of schools failing to open last week, the basic education ministry said on Monday. “We have a situation where some members of the community are themselves to blame for the delays. We were not able to access those schools to do the work needed to prepare for opening,” ministry spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said on Monday. He said there was a protest organised by a local business forum last week, and the protesters “blocked access to schools”. SA has been ranked in the top 10 for the number of new Covid-19 infections in the world for two days running, according to Worldometers. It is the only African country to make the list. Covid-19 test results for Johannesburg's Ward 58, one of the worst hit in the city, have been outstanding for more than 10 days. The DA made this claim on Monday and said its ward councillor, Alex Christians, was one of many people who has been awaiting his test results. The KwaZulu-Natal department of economic development has seized close to 20,000 litres of alcohol from one unlicensed trader outside Pietermaritzburg during liquor store inspections. In a statement issued on Monday, economic development MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube said her office, together with with law enforcement officials, had spent the past week visiting liquor outlets in the province to check if they were complying with regulations. “We’re better off on the streets!” That was the word from the ever-dwindling number of homeless people being sheltered in halls across the Nelson Mandela Bay metro during the lockdown. At the weekend, the homeless shelters were markedly less full than they were a few weeks ago. At least 23 teachers and five pupils in KwaZulu-Natal have tested positive for Covid-19. This is according to premier Sihle Zikalala, who addressed the media in Pietermaritzburg on Sunday following the opening of the Royal Show Grounds Field Hospital, which boasts 254 isolation beds. Parents of pupils at 11 schools in the Bayhaven area, in Chatsworth, did not send their children to school on Monday. Speaking on behalf of the chairpersons of the governing bodies, Brandon Pillay confirmed that pupils of Chatsworth Secondary, Protea Secondary, Southlands Secondary, Merryhill Primary, Summerfield Primary, Oceanview Primary, Fairhaven Primary, Evergreen Primary, Coedmore Primary, Excelsior Primary and KwaVulindlebe School for the Deaf were not at school on Monday. With a 5% hospitalization rate, 0,8% critical care rate, 2% mortality rate and 56% recovery rate, South Africa has been cited as a leader in the #COVID19 outbreak response. Streams of people queued in a stadium as mass testing was carried out in Beijing, the capital of the country where the disease emerged late last year. The pandemic is gathering pace in Latin America, and Iran and India have reported worrying increases in deaths and infections -- adding to concern over challenges the world will face in the long fight against COVID-19. Education activists and some schools are taking basic education minister Angie Motshekga to court after she “backtracked” on a promise to reinstate the National Schools Nutrition Programme (NSNP) to feed nine million pupils from this month, irrespective of whether or not they are back at school. SA’s health-care system faces a total medical needs onslaught as it races towards the Covid-19 surge. We drill down on how the fight is bedevilled by PPE, bed and test problems, and meddling unions. SA's Covid-19 death toll has climbed to 1,480 with a massive increase in new cases recorded, health minister Zweli Mkhize said on Sunday evening. The country has recorded a further 57 Covid-19 related deaths: 42 in the Western Cape, 10 in the Eastern Cape and five in KwaZulu-Natal. SA has tested one million people for Covid-19 - and that's no mean feat. But we can only hope the far simpler antibody tests become more reliable. A number of schools across the country have been forced to close after teachers or people in contact with the schools tested positive for Covid-19. Some of the cases were confirmed last week, preventing schools from opening on Monday June 8, while others were confirmed earlier this week.