Temba Bavuma is looking forward to Saturday’s Cricket South Africa (CSA) awards ceremony where he stands a chance to win the Standard Bank Twenty20 International Cricketer of the Year gong. The 30-year-old has been nominated in the category alongside Proteas limited-overs captain Quinton de Kock and fast bowler Lungi Ngidi. Pigeonholed as a red-ball specialist for a long time‚ Bavuma has managed to break free of those shackles and captured the imagination with his white-ball exploits over the past season. “I’m really pleased and excited about it all‚” said Bavuma of his nomination. “I’m not someone that people associate T20 cricket with. So to be nominated in this category after the few performances I had is really satisfying.” Bavuma made his Twenty20 International debut as recent as September 2019 against India in Mohali and covered himself in glory with his run-a-ball 49. He followed that up with 27 not out in the next match in Bengaluru and posted impressive scores of 43‚ 31 and another 49 in his next three innings. He smashed 199 runs in five Twenty20I innings with a leading average of 49.75. “It was a good season returning in the white-ball format. "I made my debut in that series in India and performed okay too‚ so that was a good memory‚” said Bavuma as he helped the Proteas to a drawn series. “We were trying to beat one of the strongest teams in that format on their own soil‚ off course with our own ambitions as well of trying to become the number one team as well. “So that for me was very good‚ drawing that series 1-1.” It will be a first ever virtual awards ceremony as CSA aligns with the rules and regulations of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown but Bavuma said that will not take away the merits of the awards. “The excitement of not being there will definitely be missed. It’s usually a highlight of the CSA calendar. “But it won’t take away the merit of the awards and all those recognised certainly do deserve their recognition. I’m looking forward to seeing what CSA has in store for us.” De Kock leads the nominations list with six across various categories including the big one the men’s Cricketer of the Year and the Players Player of the Year alongside Ngidi and Anrich Nortje. Richard das Neves (Easterns) JP Triegaardt (Northern Cape) Geoffrey Toyana (Northerns) Ruan de Swardt (Northerns) Jacques Snyman (Northern Cape) Basheer Walters (EP) Codi Yusuf (Gauteng) Andrea Agathangelou (Easterns) Patrick Botha (Free State) Beyers Swanepoel (Northern Cape) Domestic Professional Awards Wandile Makwetu (VKB Knights) Wesley Marshall (Momentum Multiply Titans) Thando Ntini (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras) Mark Boucher (Proteas) Wandile Gwavu (Imperial Lions) Robin Peterson (Warriors) George Linde (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras) Prenelan Subrayen (Hollywoodbets Dolphins) Reynard van Tonder (VKB Knights) Mbulelo Budaza (VKB Knights) Zubayr Hamza (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras) Grant Roelofsen (Hollywoodbets Dolphins) Keshav Maharaj (Hollywoodbest Dolphins) International Professional Awards Temba Bavuma Quinton de Kock Lungi Ngidi Quinton de Kock Heinrich Klaasen Lungi Ngidi Quinton de Kock Anrich Nortje Kagiso Rabada Quinton de Kock David Miller Marizanne Kapp Anrich Nortje Vernon Philander Mignon du Preez Lungi Ngidi Laura Wolvaardt Nadine de Klerk Shabnim Ismail Lizelle Lee Marizanne Kapp Ayabonga Khaka Laura Wolvaardt Shabnim Ismail Luara Wolvaardt Marizanne Kapp Sune Luus Laura Wolvaardt Ayabonga Khaka Mignon du Preez Shabnim Ismail Marizanne Kapp Tabraiz Shamsi David Miller Lungi Ngidi Kagiso Rabada Quinton de Kock Anrich Nortje Shabnim Ismail Lizelle Lee Laura Wolvaardt Quinton de Kock Lungi Ngidi Anrich Nortje