Health workers in the Eastern Cape are allegedly being told by managers not to reveal their positive Covid-19 status in case this leads to their colleagues staying away from work. At least two people — one a nurse and the other a driver — have allegedly been told to keep their status hidden, but the Democratic Nursing Organisation of SA (Denosa) has claimed such cases are widespread in the province. If you're the type to skip adverts on YouTube, think twice before you pass on insurance company King Price's new advert, poking fun at the lockdown and some of the regulations that apply under alert level 3. It starts off with a traffic officer who takes the motorist's temperature using a thermometer gun before he exclaims, “Ma'am, you're very hot,” and in response she says, “Yeah, I know but I'm married.” The hair and beauty industry has given the director-general of the trade and industry department until noon to provide guidelines for salons, spas and tattoo parlours to reopen under level 3, or the Employers Organisation for Hairdressing, Cosmetology and Beauty (EOHCB) will go to court. EOHCB national manager Cobus Grobler confirmed the department failed to meet its “self-invoked” deadline to publish health protocols and guidelines on June 5, which would have led to personal care services being reintroduced under alert level 3 of the national lockdown. The EOHCB then instructed its lawyers to immediately dispatch a letter to the director-general of the department, calling for a response by close of business on June 8 to enable the EOHCB to consider its position going forward. Large crowds of unruly teenagers drinking in public in Nelson Mandela Bay have caused a big headache for police — with stun grenades necessary to break up a party at the weekend. After two weekends of decadent partying in New Brighton and Zwide — in defiance of the coronavirus lockdown regulations — police and community members met on Monday to try to find a solution to the problem, reports HeraldLIVE. “Don't listen to the ANC government. don't listen to the ministers, listen to the World Health Organisation on how we can protect ourselves from Covid-19. We no longer have a president to listen to because he said it is in our hands, now we listen to international bodies.” “There is a kitchen cabinet somewhere that runs this country we are used to legitimise those kitchen cabinet decisions. We will no longer participate in those meetings because it is a waste of time. Cyril doesn't listen to us, he listens to those who give him money to become president.” After losing his office space during the Covid-19 lockdown, entrepreneur Thulani Mkhabela saw a gap for an online delivery service in Tembisa, Ekurhuleni, that could bring in an income. The founder of Siyeza Delivery, an online courier service for fast food, grocery, clothing and pharmacy orders, had recently left the corporate world to build a company that would service his township. “We started a company called Midembev in 2019 and were distributing beverages to local spazas in townships when this pandemic came in and kicked us out of our offices,” he said. The African Travel and Tourism Association (Atta) has called for international inbound tourism to resume as “close to September 1 as possible”. “By opening up as close to September 1 in a responsible manner, we will save the entire 2021 inbound tourism revenue stream and tourism in SA,” the trade association, which promotes tourism to Africa, said in a statement issued on Tuesday. It said that though parts of the travel and tourism sector have been earmarked for return in levels 2 and 1, depending on their risk profiles and the spread of Covid-19 in SA, the association  has already seen the inclusion of business travel in level 3 through successful lobbying for earlier reopening of this critical sector. As schools started reopening on Monday across SA, pupils in grades 7 and 12 were the first to return after a three-month hiatus due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the national lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the disease. Schools were expected to reopen on June 1, but this was postponed after consultations between basic education minister Angie Motshekga, unions and other education stakeholders. The postponement was due to some schools not being compliant with Covid-19 safety requirements, reported TimesLIVE. There will be no fire and brimstone in class. This is the stern instruction to teachers, who are not to make Covid-19 about God or religion.