Taxis in KwaZulu-Natal plan to operate at full capacity from Monday and long-distance taxis plan to operate without permits, according to Boy Zondi, the SA Taxi Council (Santaco) provincial chairperson. “Taxis all over KZN will carry 100% passengers from Monday. The long-distance taxis should not be required to produce permits from Monday. Should any of these decisions be disrespected, we will shut down taxis throughout the province,” Zondi said in a statement. Water tanks holding thousands of litres of water are being installed in deprived Eastern Cape schools as part of an effort to combat the coronavirus outbreak in the cash-strapped province. More than 1,500 schools were earmarked to receive the 5,000l tanks as a temporary sanitation measure led by the province’s education departments, said provincial education superintendent-general Themba Kojana. The police station in Tembisa north of Kempton Park on the East Rand has been temporarily closed after a member tested positive for Covid-19. A post on the SAPS website said that decontamination would be done soon. No indication was given as to how long the station would be closed. The message stated that more information could be obtained by contacting the station standby duty officer on 082 413 4994. “I have not received maintenance payments since February,” says Ntombenhle Mthembu from Imbali BB township in Pietermaritzburg. She was one of several frustrated mothers who gathered on the steps of the Pietermaritzburg magistrate's court earlier this week to get answers from officials. Some say they have not received maintenance payments processed by court officials since the start of the lockdown while others like Mthembu have not been paid since February. In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, it may be difficult to tell whether your sniffing, fatigue or dry cough is a sign of Covid-19 disease or just an allergy. According to Prof Michael Levin, head of the allergy division at the Red Cross Children’s Hospital and CEO of Allergy Foundation SA (AFSA), the pandemic has been the source of anxiety for most people, particularly those with long-term allergic disorders such as asthma, hay fever and coeliac diseases. But experts warn that if you have no fever, body aches and/or diarrhoea then you probably don’t have Covid-19.