The first South African citizen has just taken part in an international Covid-19 vaccination trial. Junior Mhlongo, 24, of Soweto has just been injected with, what South African medical scientists and vacinologists hope, will stop the global spread of Covid-19. Gauteng health authorities are monitoring Covid-19 cases at mental health facilities across the province where 168 staff and patients have tested positive. The affected institutions are run by the provincial health department and also contracted facilities. Two patients with underlying illnesses have died in the past nine days. Provincial health spokesperson Kwara Kekana said the department had four specialised mental health facilities: Weskoppies, Sterkfontein, Tara H Moross Psychiatric Hospital and Cullinan Care and Rehabilitation Centre. Frustrated workers at Playtex, an undergarment manufacturer in Durban, have downed tools in protest over unpaid UIF Covid-19 relief funds. They demonstrated outside the premises on Wednesday while company bosses held a meeting with shop stewards. “The company got the UIF money but that money has not reached workers' pockets,” one worker claimed. Durban Preparatory High School suspended classes on Wednesday after a grade 7 pupil tested positive for Covid-19. In a message to parents via the school's D6 communication portal, headmaster Barry Wilson said he was told on Tuesday evening by the parent of a grade 7 pupil that the youngster had tested positive. “The learner started feeling unwell at the weekend and was taken to his doctor on Monday. He has not been at school at all this week and his results came through to his family last night,” he said. The elderly and the disabled will be prioritised when thousands of residents in some Western Cape informal settlements are relocated to newer communities as part of the Covid-19 de-densification process. The department of human settlements in the Western Cape says it plans to move 1,500 Dunoon residents, with planning and designing at a nearby piece of land already in motion. Dunoon, one of Cape Town’s overcrowded communities, is one of three townships in the Western Cape that are set for de-densification as part of social distancing amid Covid-19. The other two areas where thousands are set to be relocated from are Kosovo and Khayelitsha. The elderly and the disabled will be prioritised when thousands of residents in some Western Cape informal settlements are relocated to newer communities as part of the Covid-19 de-densification process. The department of human settlements in the Western Cape says it plans to move 1,500 Dunoon residents, with planning and designing at a nearby piece of land already in motion. Dunoon, one of Cape Town’s overcrowded communities, is one of three townships in the Western Cape that are set for de-densification as part of social distancing amid Covid-19. The other two areas where thousands are set to be relocated from are Kosovo and Khayelitsha. Be warned: the personal information protection act is here. So, if you own a business, start working on compliance ASAP. While HIV-positive people are at an increased risk of dying from Covid-19 than those who are HIV-negative, they are at significant less risk than those with other underlying illnesses. This is according to analysis done by the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) in the Western Cape, which revealed that people living with HIV were at a “modestly” increased risk of dying from Covid-19, whether the virus is suppressed or not. However, they are not at a higher risk of dying from Covid-19 than those with other underlying illnesses such as diabetes and hypertension. As the Western Cape approaches its Covid-19 infection peak, the province’s biggest hospital, Tygerberg, has ditched its paper-based patient folders for voice and electronic notes. This in an effort to reduce transmission of the respiratory diseases among healthcare workers. An ambitious digitisation project of the hospital’s Covid-19 intensive care unit will not only improve the care of seriously ill Covid-19 patients and reduce infection among healthcare workers, but the installation of cameras could potentially allow stable patients to have video calls with their families. As the country waits for finance minister Tito Mboweni's budget speech, economists have expressed their expectations. Mboweni is expected to deliver the supplementary budget speech on Wednesday, following the government’s announcement that it would spend R500bn to support the economy during the Covid-19 pandemic. Head of Wits Business School Dr Jannie Rossouw told TimesLIVE that the government should not prioritise embattled SAA. The Motetema police station outside Groblersdal in Limpopo was closed on Tuesday for decontamination after an officer tested positive for Covid-19. The officer has been placed under quarantine and other members who came in close contact with the member have been isolated, police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe said. Finance minister will on Wednesday give South African some much needed clarity on the economic ramifications Covid-19 has had so far.