It was like a scene from a wrestling match as parents wrangled with a security guard for the keys to the gate during a protest about the lack of screening, sanitisers, soap and water at a school in Naas, near Komatipoort, in Mpumalanga. Angry parents and residents yesterday shut down Mbazima Primary School, saying their children were at risk of contracting coronavirus as there were no proper handwashing basins, soap or water. Some South Africans have called for the alcohol ban to be reinstated after a deadly accident in Jozini, in the north of KwaZulu-Natal, which left at least eight people dead and 32 injured on Wednesday. A truck driver lost control of the vehicle, hitting pedestrians and cars on Wednesday. He attributed the accident to brake failure but investigations found that he “may have been driving under the influence of alcohol,” according to TimesLIVE. A webinar by former public protector Thuli Madonsela was interrupted by explicit adult content from an unknown participant on Thursday. The Zoom meeting was meant to unpack the legality of the lockdown regulations in relation to the case brought by Reyno Dawid de Beer of the Liberty Fighters Network against co-operative governance & traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. At least one private hospital group has expressed concern over the sustainability of its business if the R16,000 critical care daily rate proposed by the government to care for critical Covid-19 patients is applied over an extended period. The Life HealthCare group told parliament on Wednesday that the R16,156 per bed for state patients to be treated at private hospitals when there was no space at government hospitals was below the cost-to-recovery rate and was not sustainable. Addressing MPs' questions during a joint meeting of the National Assembly and National Council of Provinces' health oversight committees, the group's Matthew Prior said the figure was a blended rate across ICU and high care and was a daily rate. Malaicha.com is an app created in April 2019 that allows people in SA to buy groceries for their relatives in Zimbabwe. The idea for the app was inspired by Zimbabweans living and working in SA, who for decades have been paying bus and taxi drivers to deliver food to their relatives back home. The word malaicha is Ndebele slang for this traditional method of sending goods over the border. This method is costly and unreliable - and has now become impossible with Covid-19 lockdowns in both countries. With cross-border movement restricted, the app has been a blessing for thousands of clients in SA and Zimbabwe. The transport department has painted a grim picture of the state of the transport industry, which has seen state entities severely impacted by government’s hard lockdown. Addressing parliament's transport portfolio committee on Wednesday evening, transport director-general Alec Moemi, told of how one of the hardest-hit companies, the Airports Company SA, had suffered a R11bn loss due to the prohibition on international and domestic air travel. He said the department of transport had written to the National Treasury to get guarantees in order to raise funds. Healthcare workers at Tygerberg Hospital in Cape Town say they are scared to go to work and feel more vulnerable to contracting the coronavirus at work than in their communities. This is as Covid-19 cases at the hospital soar. “Going to work feels like going to the jungle. You don’t know whether you will come back alive or not. In every unit, there are several staff that had been booked off due to Covid-19,” said a nurse who works at the hospital.