Watch: Betty Adapted from her feature film Skate Kitchen, Crystal Moselle's hip and of the moment series examines the lives of young New York women who skate. With exuberantly filmed skate scenes, off-the-wall characters and adventures that take its characters to unexpected places in the city, it's a refreshing piece of aware and conscious entertainment that's both celebratory and dramatically satisfying in its examination of the everyday lives and challenges of its band of independent-minded heroines. New episodes added weekly. Where to stream it: Showmax Watch: 7500 Joseph Gordon-Levitt stars as a commercial co-pilot whose world is thrown into turmoil when hijackers attempt to take control of a flight from Berlin to Paris. Told entirely from the perspective of the pilots in the cockpit, it's a nail-biting hijack thriller with a good dose of empathy at its core as time begins to run out for Gordon-Levitt and his passengers. Where to stream it: Amazon Prime Video Watch: The Wasp Network French maverick Olivier Assayas helms this sometimes flat, dramatically murky, true story of a group of Cuban exiles in the US working as spies in the exile movement in Miami in the '90s. Featuring a stellar cast that includes Edgar Ramirez, Penelope Cruz, Gael Garcia Bernal and Wagner Moura, it's a complicated story that offers just enough intrigue to keep you watching. Where to stream it: Netflix Watch: The Politician Season 2 Ryan Murphy's gleefully over-the-top examination of the back-stabbing, deal-making world of US politics continues with the further adventures of conservative young-blood Payton Hobart (Ben Platt) in his quest for political stardom as he and his former high-school campaign team reunite for a very dirty, no-holds-barred run for state senate. Where to stream it: Netflix Watch: Devils Patrick Dempsey smooths back his Grey's Anatomy mop for his portrayal of a ruthless London banker in this dramatic thriller about greed and power in the financial industry in the age of the Greek collapse and the IMF of Dominique Strauss-Kahn. It stars Alessandro Borghi as a young master of the universe who must race to fight off ghosts from his past. He faces a tough moral choice as he makes his way up the ladder of a multimillion-dollar global empire whose dealings are, as he soon discovers, questionable, to say the least. Where to stream it: Netflix