Classes have been suspended at more KwaZulu-Natal schools as more teachers test positive for Covid-19. A school principal whose wife attempted to commit suicide because of depression over Covid-19 plans to embark on community education campaigns aimed at destigmatising people infected by the virus. Speaking to Sowetan from his Benoni home in Ekurhuleni on Tuesday, the 51-year-old whose name is being withheld to protect their children, battled to save his 48-year-old wife from the flames engulfing her isolation room at their house. Finance minister Tito Mboweni's supplementary budget speech was all talk and no action, according to the Institute of Race Relations (IRR). “Instead of laying the groundwork for recovery, he did nothing more than pay lip service to prudent fiscal management,” the think-tank charged in a statement. On the eve of Mboweni's budget speech on Wednesday, the institute set out measures it believed the minister could announce to get SA back to work. Cape Town chefs are paying it forward during the Covid-19 pandemic by feeding more than 37,000 hungry people in the Western Cape. Through the initiative “Soupathon 1,000", the chefs of Extreem Kwizeen are assisting those affected the most with daily soup and bread. Speaking to TimesLIVE, one of the head chefs, Evan Coosner, said to date, more than 150 chefs from all walks of life and all levels of hospitality have offered their skills and the goal is to produce 326,000 cups of soup a month. Gyms had to close their doors at the same time as the rest of the country when lockdown level 5 was implemented in March. Before they closed, international studies showed that gyms would be a hotspot for spreading Covid-19 - forcing many around the world to close their doors, often even if they were still allowed to operate. "Kaya FM’s management has taken the decision to immediately close its premises, due to a confirmed Covid-19 case amongst staff. Our company of 97 employees have been informed, and we as a company are managing the potential for further exposure pending the results of other employees’ tests." In a Gauteng medical facility, a 28-year-old man quietly wiped away tears. He ​​and others share their thoughts with us on being SA's first citizens to take part in a global Covid-19 vaccine trial.