The National Treasury has resolved to end emergency procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) and other Covid-19 protective clothing after shocking revelations of alleged corruption linked to the multibillion-rand spending programme. This is according to a Treasury presentation tabled by finance minister Tito Mboweni and his director-general Dondo Mogajane during a meeting with parliament's finance committees from the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces. The documents show that government departments will no longer be allowed to hand pick PPE suppliers, and will be ordered to return to open tender processes. The health-care benefits cited by co-operative governance & traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma for the decision to ban tobacco sales during the lockdown pale in comparison with the financial ruin it has caused. This is according to British American Tobacco SA (Batsa), which launched its legal battle against Dlamini-Zuma in the high court in Cape Town on Wednesday. The tobacco giant's senior counsel, Alfred Cockrell, told a full bench of three judges the ban had increased the trade in illicit cigarettes. Moderna Inc is in talks with several countries for supply agreements for its experimental coronavirus vaccine, the company said on Wednesday, adding that it had already received about $400 million in deposits for potential supply. The company's vaccine candidate is one of the few to be in the final stages of testing as drugmakers race to develop a safe and effective vaccine against the pandemic that has claimed more than 700,000 lives worldwide. Last week, Moderna announced the start of a late-stage trial on 30,000 people to demonstrate that its vaccine was safe and effective, the final hurdle prior to regulatory approval. It has said the vaccine could be ready for widespread use by the end of this year. —Reuters French Prime Minister Jean Castex said on Wednesday that state support for the wine sector, which has been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic, would be increased to 250 million euros ($295 million). Castex made the announcement during a visit to the Menetou-Salon and Sancerre vineyards in the Cher department in centre-Val de Loire region. —Reuters Cecil Norman Steenbok, from Bloemfontein, battled Covid-19 for 11 days in hospital, but two days before celebrating his 30th wedding anniversary with his wife, he lost the fight. Susan and Cecil would have celebrated their anniversary on Monday, but he died of Covid-19 complications at the weekend. Steenbok, 62, died at Mediclinic in Bloemfontein on Saturday. Health minister Zweli Mkhize gave an update on Wednesday about Covid-19 and the government's response to curbing its spread. His address comes five months after SA recorded its first Covid-19 infection on March 5. There are now 521,318 confirmed Covid-19 cases in SA and the death toll stands at 8,884. Here are five important quotes from the minister's address: Various proposals for lifting the ban on alcohol sales have been proposed to the government by scientists and organisations to prioritise livelihoods amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The latest proposal is a three-day window to purchase alcohol that was proposed by Prof Charles Parry of the South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC). Here is what you need to know. The MEC for health in KwaZulu-Natal has come under heavy criticism for allegedly blocking a scheduled oversight visit to Stanger Hospital by DA shadow minister of health Siviwe Gwarube. The DA said it will now lay criminal charges against the MEC, Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu, for “blocking” MPs from conducting oversight inspections in the province's health facilities. “Upon arrival at Stanger Hospital, my colleague, who serves in the health portfolio committee in the KwaZulu-Natal legislature, and I were blocked by security and later the police were called to attempt to forcibly remove us from outside the premises where we had waited patiently for the hospital management. In the early days of the pandemic, it was suggested countries, like South Africa, which gave the BCG vaccine to all newborns were faring better in keeping down Covid-19 infections. Epidemiologists were cautious, however, saying it was far too early to make such a claim as the pandemic was hitting different countries at different times. A new study has been published which gives added muscle to the theory that there is a correlation between countries which give all newborns the BCG vaccine, to prevent tuberculosis, and a flattened curve of Covid-19 infections. Deputy higher education and training minister Buti Manamela was bombarded with questions and complaints from staff and students on his visit to tertiary institutions in Nelson Mandela Bay on Tuesday. Manamela visited Port Elizabeth TVET College and Nelson Mandela University to monitor safety protocols in line with the phased reopening of institutions of higher learning. Most of the complaints related to the shortage of resources, such as laptops, and the training of student leaders on the response strategies to Covid-19. —HeraldLIVE Health minister Zweli Mkhize is adamant that corruption entwined with the country's Covid-19 pandemic will be rooted out, and those implicated will face the full might of the law. “There is no room to tolerate corruption anywhere, not in the procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE), any other part of health services, or in government in general,” he said during a virtual briefing on Wednesday. “President Cyril Ramaphosa has made this very clear, and all ministers are firm and determined to uproot corruption.” Novavax Inc said on Tuesday its experimental Covid-19 vaccine produced antibodies against the novel coronavirus, according to initial data from a small, early-stage clinical trial. The company said it would likely move forward with the lower of two tested doses of the vaccine. It reported that eight study participants experienced adverse side effects after receiving a second vaccine dose during the trial. The company said none required medical intervention. Headache, fatigue, and muscle pain were among the more common side effects, and the vaccine was "well tolerated" overall, the company said. —Reuters If co-operative governance & traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma is concerned that sharing cigarettes may increase the spread of Covid-19, why did she not ban the sale of cooldrinks as well? This was one of the arguments advanced by British American Tobacco SA (Batsa) before its legal fight to overturn the cigarette sales ban. Batsa — and other litigants including farmers, processors, manufactures, retailers and consumers — are taking legal action against Dlamini-Zuma, President Cyril Ramaphosa and the national coronavirus command council in the high court in Cape Town. The matter will be heard by the full bench on Wednesday. Heineken SA has rubbished claims it has been forced to shut down production entirely due to the Covid-19 lockdown and ban on alcohol sales. The beer brand issued a statement this week after media reports that it has been forced to shut down production. The company said it is still in operation and is not closing, despite the immense pressure placed on the industry to retain jobs during the Covid-19 lockdown. The Restaurant Association of SA (Rasa) has condemned illegal sales of alcohol at some restaurants. This comes after claims on social media that some restaurants, particularly in Cape Town, have been selling alcohol despite the ban on liquor sales. Rasa chief executive Wendy Alberts acknowledged that the association is aware of the claims. Health minister Zweli Mkhize said on Wednesday morning the country had not reached its hospital capacity, and the surge in Covid-19 cases might end soon. During a virtual meeting, Mkhize said the country had also not reached its capacity in field hospitals across the country. He said: “We will continue to monitor this. Government has displayed its readiness to cope with the surge. There has also been an improvement in survival rate in intensive care units.” Consol Glass has indefinitely suspended construction of a new R1.5bn glass manufacturing plant in Ekurhuleni, Gauteng, as the government’s ban on the sale of alcohol to combat the spread of the coronavirus shatters demand for glass products. “The ongoing ban on alcohol sales and restrictions around on-premise consumption results in massive future demand issues and lost confidence in these markets recovering,” Consol chief executive Mike Arnold said. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga says the education system is currently “breathing through the wound” but postponing the academic year further over fears of Covid-19 is not an option. Motshekga, who was addressing grade 12 learners at Eletsa Secondary School in Brits in the North West, said closing schools would have “catastrophic” outcomes. The company – and other litigants including farmers, processors, manufactures, retailers and consumers – are up in arms over Dlamini-Zuma’s decision to ban the sale of tobacco and vaping products during the lockdown.