What would you do if you were fearless: free of the fear of judgment, free of fearing criticism, free of fearing not being enough? Female-focused insurance company, 1st for Women, wants SA women to be fearless and has partnered with Miss Universe Zozibini Tunzi — an icon of strength, courage and resilience — to spread the message. Watch the video below: “Living fearless is liberating. That’s the message we want to impart to the women of SA on Women’s Day and beyond,” says Tunzi. “Despite the turbulence and chaos that surrounds us, we want to encourage women to resist fear, confront it and fight back against it with the ultimate intention of empowering women to realise their indomitable strength.” “Women have incredible inner strength. We persevere and thrive through fears both seen and unseen. And yet, we are often our own harshest critics; we fight an internal dialogue about our worth. We hold back in case we are wrong. We want women to start asking themselves ‘what would you do if you were fearless?’” says Tunzi. Experts agree that while fear has its benefits and is an important response to physical and emotional danger, for women, fear is omnipresent. As author and speaker Monica Berg explains in her book, Fear Is Not an Option: Fear is powerful enough to keep us from achieving our goals and living our best lives. Once you decide fear isn’t an option, you are left with only the choice to change — to shift your consciousness, or to take action. Robyn Farrell, CEO of 1st for Women Insurance, says: “We teamed up with Tunzi because she is a powerful champion of women’s rights and is an advocate in the fight against gender-based violence. She’s a force to be reckoned with, a symbol of courage, and embodies what it means to be fearless. We are so proud to have her on board to share a message that’s so pertinent, especially now.” Tunzi is well-versed in conquering fears. “I have had so many fears in my life. One of the recent ones is that I would be rejected by people as their Miss Universe; that I wasn't enough and would fail because I looked different to any other Miss Universe people were used to. But I soon realised that what I thought was my weakness was actually my strength. I tapped into it and I owned who I am completely. Now I am confident, comfortable and fearless because I turned my fear into a strength.” Here are Tunzi’s top tips for conquering fear and becoming fearless: “When women fear less, they become fearless. They can then do what they thought they couldn’t and say what they thought they shouldn’t. It’s a choice, with the ultimate reward being true freedom,” says Tunzi. This article was paid for by 1st For Women.