'Don't lift bans on alcohol and tobacco': ANCWL president Bathabile Dlamini ANC Women's League president Bathabile Dlamini has reiterated the league's opposition to the lifting of the ban on alcohol and cigarettes sales as pressure mounts on President Cyril Ramaphosa to open the economy. Dlamini told TimesLIVE that the league had not changed its position on the matter and it stood by a submission the organisation made to the national coronavirus command council (NCCC) in May. Social distancing working in Gauteng but risks loom with schools opening If schools open fully at month end, the predicted peak for Covid-19 could be brought forward and the number of infections could double, says an expert. The data prediction was presented by Prof Bruce Mellado of Wits University during the week’s Covid-19 provincial command council update on Thursday. Mellado is one of the experts helping the Gauteng government with a modelling strategy for Covid-19 using the data from the previous months. 'Unban alcohol sales now': calls from across the industry grow louder Various organisations and politicians are calling for the alcohol sales ban to be lifted. The sale and distribution of alcohol was reintroduced in June, more than two months after a ban was implemented on March 26. But a second ban was imposed in July with President Cyril Ramaphosa insisting it was to help reduce trauma-related injuries in hospitals as the country battled to halt the spread of Covid-19. TimesLIVE reported that the government has been advised by the Forum of SA Directors-General (Fosad) to rethink the ban and the national coronavirus command council (NCCC) suggested that the country be moved to level 2 of the lockdown. The council met on Sunday to discuss reopening the majority of the country. Worldwide coronavirus cases cross 20.69 million, death toll at 749,028 More than 20.69 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 749,028​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. -REUTERS Coronavirus infection rate among health workers in SA is 5% — below global average A total of 27,360 SA hospital workers — which include doctors, nurses, porters and other hospital staff — have contracted Covid-19 since the start of the outbreak. Two-hundred-and-forty of them have died from the virus, the health ministry announced on Thursday. Health minister Zweli Mkhize said data provided by the provinces had revealed that 21,333 of these infections — 78% — had been reported from employees in the public health sector. Mkhize mourns paediatric cardiologist Lungile Pepeta, who died from Covid-19 Health minister Zweli Mkhize has paid homage to the chairperson of the Council for Medical Schemes, Prof Lungile Pepeta, who died from Covid-19 related complications last week. Pepeta had been appointed to the position in June after the death of the previous chairperson, Dr Clarence Mini, in May, who also succumbed to Covid-19. “SA has lost one of her best sons — confident, knowledgeable, articulate and inspiring ... one of the top thinkers, a brilliant mind, an outstanding academic and a pioneering researcher. “He was a visionary who held high hopes for our country and an innovator who always harboured dreams of a better SA and spent time figuring out strategies to take this nation to the future of his ideals,” Mkhize said. Nearly 30,000 SA health workers infected with Covid-19 Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has revealed that 27,360 health workers have been infected with Covid-19 since February. The National School Nutrition Programme (NSNP) is ready to implement on a full scale but due to fears of Covid-19, parents are not allowing pupils to collect the meals. Long distances from schools also prevent pupils from coming to school to collect the meals and this affects the number of pupils benefiting from the programme. These submissions are contained in an affidavit filed by department of basic education director-general Mathanzima Mweli in compliance with a judgment passed by the high court in Pretoria on July 22. Worldwide coronavirus cases cross 20.62 million, death toll at 748,063 More than 20.62 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 748,063​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. -REUTERS SA far from safe, but signs of Covid-19 herd immunity are showing It might take fewer infected people to achieve Covid-19 herd immunity than previously thought — and some spots in SA are already showing signs of this happening. Herd immunity is when a disease can’t find new people to infect in a community because enough people have become immune. This comes about from many people having been infected and thus developing antibodies, or when enough people have been vaccinated so that transmission is properly interrupted. With no vaccine in the mix yet, the antibody road to herd immunity has had scientists working non-stop to figure out the relationship between Covid-19 and how easily reinfection occurs.