Whether you have plans to set up shop in a styled-up Mad Men-inspired office or need to carve out a corner of a room to call your own, these designer ideas for your desktop, practical ideas to keep things neat and tidy, and slick solutions for even the smallest office spaces will keep you motivated. More and more we're embracing the fact that a high-functioning home office area doesn't need to be huge. All that's needed is an area you can call your own, space to think and sometimes a chance to shut out the world for a while — thank you, noise-cancelling earphones. This tiny corner has been transformed into a hardworking work-from-home zone with enough space for a laptop, stationery, filing and reference essentials. A wall-mounted unit provides ample storage space while the metallic touches along with the hand-woven chair and sheepskin cover bring in just the right amount of laid-back luxury. Charcoal grey walls and a glass-fronted cabinet lined with collectables and memorabilia are a striking focal point in this smart office space that embraces classic and contemporary style perfectly. A contemporary shared office space evokes a private gentleman's club atmosphere - with none of the snobbery and all of the style cred. Raw timber floorboards, a graphic Persian rug in unconventional brights and a gallery wall featuring a mix of classical and more modern landscapes tell the tale of its owners who make their own interior rules. How to transform a formerly nondescript corner into something seriously impressive? Paint or paper the background in a dramatic colour or print! This teeny space oozes urban smarts and designer appeal. Two tables of the same height are lined up to form an impressive desktop in this eclectic creative studio. The large room is dotted with furniture and decor items that command attention - from the oversized table lamp to mid-century leather chairs. This compact sleep-work-play unit has a place for everything and everything has its place. A bracketing system with units that slide up and down to form seating or act as storage is at the heart of the design. This ultra cool pad could suit the needs of everyone from teen to guitar-toting dad. The utilitarian plywood wall detail is a pragmatic, no-frills choice that ticks the on-trend box while dramatic black details are simple yet strong. Cape Town stylist Shelley Street combines her love for a monochromatic colour palette and found natural objects in her work-from-home studio. Form and function are perfect partners in this space that can double up as a shoot location at any time. A lifelong collection of much loved art exhibition posters is elevated to gallery status in this retro-fabulous home office and studio. • Photos: Greg Cox and Warren Heath via Bureaux.