More than 90% of countries have seen ordinary health services disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic, with major gains in medical care attained over decades vulnerable to being wiped out in a short period, a World Health Organisation survey showed. The Geneva-based body has frequently warned about other life-saving programmes being impacted by the pandemic and has sent countries mitigation advice, but the survey yielded the first WHO data so far on the scale of disruptions. "The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on essential health services is a source of great concern," said a report on the study released on Monday. "Major health gains achieved over the past two decades can be wiped out in a short period of time..." The European Commission said on Monday it would contribute 400 million euros ($476 million) in guarantees to an initiative led by the World Health Organisation to buy Covid-19 vaccines. Countries wishing to be part of the WHO initiative, dubbed COVAX, had to submit expressions of interest by Monday. Former Post Office chair and KwaZulu-Natal legal mind Comfort Ngidi died on Saturday evening. KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala said on Sunday Ngidi had died in hospital. According to a statement issued by the ANC, Ngidi was admitted to hospital a week ago after he contracted Covid-19. The Philippines reported on Monday 3,446 coronavirus infections and 38 deaths, taking its total caseload to 220,819 and fatalities to 3,558, its health ministry said. The ministry also said on Monday that five Philippine hospitals have been identified as candidates for potential clinical trials of a Covid-19 vaccine manufactured by China-based Sinovac Biotech. Russia reported 4,993 new cases of the coronavirus on Monday, bringing its nationwide tally to 995,319, the fourth largest caseload in the world.Russia's coronavirus taskforce said 83 people had died over the last 24 hours, pushing the official death toll to 17,176. The Hawks on Sunday arrested a 62-year-old man for allegedly pocketing R4.7m from the Covid-19 Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) temporary employer/employee relief (Ters) scheme. Hawks spokesman Brig Hangwani Mulaudzi said the man would face fraud, theft and money laundering charges. "The pensioner was arrested after he failed to disclose that he became a instant R4.7m millionaire. The money was meant to remunerate employees of a certain company to be disclosed in court papers," Mulaudzi said. A law which policy experts say could turn the tide in our booze battle has been stalled for four years. While the cause of death listed as solely from the novel coronavirus occurred in 6% of cases in the U.S. from Feb. 1 to Aug. 22, it does not mean that the virus was not a contributing factor in the other 94%. These people had more than one contributing factor to their deaths.