The ANC has apologised for a lack of social distancing at the funeral of party stalwart and Rivonia trialist Andrew Mlangeni in Soweto last week. Visuals of the event outside Mlangeni's home showed dozens of people in attendance — some estimates said about 200 people were present — in clear breach of lockdown laws. According to Disaster Management Act regulations, a maximum of 50 people are allowed to attend a funeral. The ANC NEC wants its deployees in the government to urgently establish a multidisciplinary agency to deal with white-collar crime and corruption. This is one of the resolutions of this past weekend’s three-day sitting of the national executive committee (NEC). “The NEC declared its full support for the decision, announced by President [Cyril] Ramaphosa, to refer all allegations of corruption in the procurement for Covid-19 goods and services to the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) and for the establishment of a multidisciplinary law enforcement team to investigate Covid-19 corruption. It urges this team to move with speed to bring those responsible to book,” the party said in a statement. South African supermarket chain Pick n Pay flagged a more than 50% fall in first-half earnings on Tuesday, weighed down by constraints on alcohol, tobacco and clothing sales during the lockdown, and by voluntary severance payments. President Cyril Ramaphosa imposed a nationwide lockdown from the end of March to curb the spread of coronavirus, banning retailers from selling non-essential items. These account for about 20% of Pick n Pay's group revenue, with higher gross profit margins relative to basic food and grocery lines. —Reuters “They'll never take my power,” chanted a grinning young man as he took a swig from a bottle at a get-together where revellers blatantly flouted lockdown rules in Johannesburg. These were the scenes captured in photos and videos at a gathering in the city, apparently at the weekend, which are now the subject of an urgent police investigation. There was little evidence of social distancing and face masks in the footage as hundreds of people flocked to Kwai Mai Mai in Jeppestown. Some revellers appeared to be openly drinking alcohol. While the coronavirus pandemic has caused major disruptions in HIV and TB services in the country, something positive has emerged from the Covid-19 response that we can take forward in our battle against these other major diseases. The mainstreaming of masks and public interest in health data are two of the big lessons. That is according to Dr Zameer Brey, who was speaking on Tuesday morning at a webinar hosted by the SA National Aids Council (Sanac). Brey heads the TB programme in SA for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The ANC national executive committee (NEC) has given the party's top six one month to identify a list of cases of those facing allegations of corruption along with recommendations on how they should be dealt with. This is contained in a post-NEC statement after a tense sitting of the party’s highest decision-making structure in between conferences which dealt, in the main, with what action the party should take regarding those within its ranks accused of — among other things — looting state funds. “Pursuant to the resolution that those accused of corruption and other serious crimes against the people, including those charged in courts, may be expected to step aside from their positions or responsibilities, the national officials be requested immediately to prepare an audited list of cases and submit this list within one month to the NWC [national working committee] and the NEC, with recommendations for action,” the statement read. The National Treasury has granted a request by the alcohol industry for a deferment of excise tax on liquor. Alcohol industry spokesperson Sibani Mngadi said in a statement on Tuesday that the Treasury had proposed a 90-day suspension for the payment of excise tax on alcohol. The proposed deferral will be for August and September. eThekwini municipality has issued a stern warning to residents that they face the full might of the law if they continue to flock to the city's beaches during lockdown. This comes after a video of beachgoers scurrying away from law-enforcement officials with their possessions, including surf boards and picnic ware, went viral on Monday. It is understood  the incident took place at a beach north of Durban. In his weekly newsletter, President Cyril Ramaphosa has again reiterated government is determined to root out corruption related to Covid-19 funds. Ramaphosa described companies and individuals implicated in pocketing funds and food parcels as people with “no conscience”. Investigations into the mismanagement of Covid-19 funds are being conducted, and the president will receive interim reports every six weeks. He said where criminality has been found, cases will be referred for prosecution. Cape Town is the only South African city with the capacity to successfully weather the Covid-19 storm, a survey of the financial sustainability of metros has found. Ratings Afrika gave the Mother City a score of 74 out of 100 on its sustainability index. The average was 48. The index looked at operating performance, liquidity management, debt governance, budget practices, affordability and infrastructure development. A video of Nigerian prophet TB Joshua virtually “healing” congregants with Covid-19 from an isolation centre in Honduras, Central America, has gone viral online, despite the World Health Organisation (WHO) saying there is no cure for the virus. One of the patients gave their testimony about the “miracle”, saying: “I passed out a lot of foul substances — that was the power of prayer.” The prayer was themed “Distance is not a barrier interactive sessions”. Before the prayer, a health-care worker can be seen in the video asking patients to describe their conditions and the “miracles” they expect. SA's front-line health-care workers are dying as they help save thousands of lives during the Covid-19 pandemic. Hospitals are overwhelmed, health-care workers lack personal protective equipment (PPE), and some staff suffer from underlying health conditions that make them more vulnerable to this deadly virus. A recent video shared by Young Nurses Indaba Trade Union touched many as the organisation honoured one of the nurses from Bongani Regional Hospital in Welkom, Free State, who died from Covid-19 complications. Two KwaZulu-Natal children have succumbed to Covid-19. The provincial health department on Tuesday morning said a four-year-old boy and three-month-old girl had died from the virus. The department said the province had recorded 93 more deaths. Germany is already contending with a second wave of the coronavirus and risks squandering its early success by flouting social distancing rules, the head of the German doctors' union said in a newspaper interview published on Tuesday. The number of daily confirmed coronavirus cases has ticked up steadily in recent weeks, with health experts warning lax adherence to hygiene and distancing rules among some of the public is spreading the virus across communities. "We are already in a second, shallow upswing," Susanne Johna, president of Marburger Bund, which represents doctors in Germany, told the Augsburger Allgemeine newspaper. —Reuters The KwaZulu-Natal department of social development says it has opened a criminal case and suspended a number of officials over the procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) as well as blankets. This follows a “damning forensic” investigation report conducted into the procurement of the goods, MEC for social development Nonhlanhla Khoza said in a statement.