Eastern Cape Covid-19 deaths may be 8,000 — four times official number As many as 8,000 people may already have died in the Eastern Cape as a result of Covid-19 — almost four times higher than the government’s official numbers. While official statistics show that more than 2,200 people in the province have succumbed to the coronavirus to date, researchers have shown how the Eastern Cape, along with the rest of SA, exhibited a high “excess mortality” rate in June and July compared to death figures for the same period in 2018 and 2019. Covid-19 is the only difference now in the country compared to previous years. It's back to the beach at KZN tourism hotspot St Lucia Durban may have banned beachgoers from setting foot on its many beaches, but the north coast tourist town of St Lucia is welcoming visitors on to its shores with open arms. In a bid to revive tourism, St Lucia, renowned for being a beach, bush and wetland haven, has been encouraging visitors to return to its beaches since the government recently permitted leisure travel. Enticing pictures of bathers enjoying leisure time at the beach have been posted in recent days to the St Lucia Town Facebook page. “Our beaches are open ... come visit,” stated one post. Singapore reports 42 new coronavirus cases, lowest daily count in 4.5 months Singapore on Wednesday reported 42 new COVID-19 cases, its lowest daily count in about four and a half months. The city-state went into a lockdown in mid-April after mass outbreaks in cramped migrant worker dormitories pushed its caseload to one of the highest in Asia. Last week, it said it had cleared infections from all of the dormitories - housing around 300,000 workers - barring some blocks which continue to serve as isolation zones. Of Wednesday's cases - its lowest tally since March 29 - the majority were among those remaining workers serving quarantine. -REUTERS Social distance takes a pummelling in Eastern Cape grant queue scrums Queues for the R350 special Covid-19 relief grant become unmanageable at times as people forget social distancing in their scramble to advance in the lines. Post offices in the East London CBD, Cambridge, Mdantsane and Southernwood see large numbers of beneficiaries lining up every day to receive the grant. Some travel from as far as 30km away. Zukisa Ngingxana, 35, told DispatchLIVE on Tuesday he travelled from NU3 in Mdantsane to get the grant at the Cambridge post office. SA could move to level two this week to save economy from Covid-19 battering The country could move to level 2 this week if Cabinet accepts a recommendation from directors-general to open more sectors of the economy. A forum made up of directors-general of national departments (Fosad), met on Sunday where it was resolved to recommend to the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC), that almost all sectors of the economy be opened except crowded places, but under strict enforcement of social distancing, hand sanitisation and wearing of masks. If their recommendation is accepted by the NCCC and endorsed by Cabinet, President Cyril Ramaphosa could address the nation before the end of the week to communicate the move to Level 2. Working from home makes people significantly more productive: study A new study has shown that the shift to remote working has led to improved productivity - at least in nearly a third (29%) of the organisations polled. The study - "Remote Working in South Africa 2020", done by World Wide Worx for Cisco - looked at 400 enterprises. It found that for companies that had already rolled out digital transformation strategies prior to the coronavirus pandemic, the increased productivity increased to 70%. German health minister says he's sceptical about Russian Covid-19 vaccine German Health Minister Jens Spahn on Wednesday said he was sceptical about Russia becoming the first country to grant regulatory approval to a Covid-19 vaccine, saying it was key to have a safe, tested product rather than just being first. Russia's vaccine, which will be called "Sputnik V" in homage to the world's first satellite launched by the Soviet Union, has not yet completed its final trials. Its regulatory approval came after less than two months of human testing." It's not about being first somehow - it's about having an effective, tested and therefore safe vaccine," Spahn told Deutschlandfunk radio. "In order to have trust in such a vaccine, I think it is very, very important, even during a pandemic, to properly do studies, the relevant tests and especially to make them public. The problem is that we know very little about it as the Russian authorities are not being very transparent," he said. -REUTERS KZN education department won't tolerate back to school disruptions over Covid-19 KwaZulu-Natal education MEC Kwazi Mshengu said he would not tolerate school disruptions as Grade 7 pupils resumed classes on Monday after a two-week holiday. Mshengu was speaking at Ithamsanqa Primary in Newcastle when he and basic education deputy minister Reginah Mhaule visited three schools in the area. "We will be very intolerant of anyone who disrupts the schooling system under the pretence of protecting pupils and teachers against Covid-19," said Mshengu. How UWC's feral cats are keeping all nine lives during lockdown Feral cats roaming the University of the Western Cape (UWC) campus have not lost any of their nine lives during lockdown, because they have been fed every day and are getting emergency vet care, UWC reported on Tuesday. “Cats have needs, just like humans,” said the cats’ full-time caretaker Patrick Lupuzi. “They may be solitary animals in many ways, but like us they love attention and companionship. And they also need to be taken care of in terms of food, shelter, health, and so on.” When Covid-19 infections started surging in Cape Town, Lupuzi could not safely get to campus on public transport to look after them. More than 20.19 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 736,577​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. The number of confirmed cases in Germany increased by 1,226 to 218,519, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Wednesday. The reported death toll rose by 6 to 9,207, the tally showed. -REUTERS