Excess deaths from natural causes have fallen for the third successive week, in line with the decline in confirmed Covid-19 deaths, the Medical Research Council (SAMRC) reported on Wednesday. The number of excess deaths in the week ending August 11 was 3,014 - above the expected total based on historical trends. In the previous week, there were 4,673 excess deaths SA has passed the R3-trillion debt mark, with national borrowing averaging about R2bn every weekday, Western Cape premier Alan Winde said on Wednesday. “We have a very difficult path ahead of us,” said Winde, a keynote speaker during a Western Cape property development webinar. The premier, who recently recovered from Covid-19, was outlining the economic challenge in the wake of multiple shocks over the past few years, including load-shedding, drought, and international ratings agency junk status. KwaZulu-Natal health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu has come under fire from parliament's health portfolio committee for failing to attend a scheduled meeting. In a statement, portfolio chair Sibongiseni Dhlomo expressed disappointment at Simelane-Zulu’s no-show and lambasted her for “delaying the programme of the committee”. DA MP Tsepo Mhlongo has been accused of shopping for alcohol during an online parliamentary session on Wednesday. About 10 minutes into a question-and-answer session with peace and security cluster ministers on Wednesday, a video of a man walking at a supermarket flashed across the screens. It showed a man's legs. He was wearing blue denim jeans and black shoes. Behind him was a trolley filled with what appeared to be bottles of alcohol. Tourism minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane has warned restaurant and bar owners and managers who break the 10pm curfew that they will be arrested. Kubayi-Ngubane said on Wednesday that she had spoken to restaurant owners and pleaded with them to stick to closing times. Since the country moved to level 2 of the lockdown, restaurants, bars and taverns are allowed to operate and serve alcohol until 10pm. Feeling cramped under lockdown? Why not buy your own island home in Knysna, complete with bridge and seahorses? Those with a few million rand to burn — R19.9m to be exact — might wish to consider a level 2 lockdown life on Num Num within the Thesen Islands “archipelago”. It has its own beach, two private jetties and a state-of-the-art home overlooking the Western Cape estuary. Homemade pineapple beer going to waste now that the booze ban's been lifted and you've restocked your drinks cabinet? With a little pizazz and some creativity you can turn it into some delicious mixed drinks: To make 4-6 drinks, mix 100ml (about 7 tbsp)  pineapple beer* with 500ml (2 cups) of softened vanilla ice cream. Drain a 432g tin of crushed pineapple. Spoon 30ml (2 tbsp) of the crushed pineapple into the base of each glass. Divide the ice cream mixture between the glasses, reserving enough to top each cocktail with a generous spoonful of the mixture. Add another layer of crushed pineapple to each glass and top with a blob of the reserved ice cream mixture. Garnish with a ¼ of a slice of unpeeled pineapple and a cocktail umbrella. *You can add more or less pineapple beer to the mix depending on how strong you like your drinks. National Assembly speaker Thandi Modise has acceded to the DA's request for an urgent parliamentary debate on corruption related to Covid-19 procurement. But she declined the official opposition's demand that President Cyril Ramaphosa should be summoned to account on how he would deal with ANC members implicated in Covid-19 corruption. The party also demanded that Ramaphosa account for his son, Andile, who, according to DA interim leader John Steenhuisen, landed a R6m contract to modify taxis in Gauteng to comply with Covid-19 regulations. The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) is probing 658 cases of possible corruption related to  government procurement of Covid-19 personal protective equipment (PPE) worth more than R5bn. This was disclosed by SIU head advocate Andy Mothibi and his team during a meeting with parliament's standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) on Wednesday. In their report on alleged PPE corruption, the SIU said it was probing multiple provincial departments and municipalities across the nine provinces, including six national departments, for questionable contracts worth R5,083,478,584. A fresh outbreak of infections in Australia's coronavirus hot zone of Victoria eased further on Wednesday, while the country agreed a deal to secure a potential Covid-19 vaccine that it plans to roll out cost-free to citizens. Australia has signed a deal with British drugmaker AstraZeneca to produce and distribute enough doses of a potential coronavirus vaccine for its population of 25 million, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said late on Tuesday. "Should we be in a position for the trials to be successful, we would hope that this would be made available early next year. If it can be done sooner than that, great," Morrison said on Wednesday. —Reuters Despite renewed alcohol sales and the loosening of restrictions on citizens during level 2 of the coronavirus lockdown, police believe people will be responsible while exercising  their new freedoms in SA. Police spokesperson Brig Vish Naidoo said police would still work with the SANDF, metro and traffic departments to ensure the regulations were adhered to. “SAPS doesn't expect anything untoward during the first week of level 2. In the main, South Africans have been behaving responsibly and we anticipate high levels of responsibility from our people. Police work together with communities and our relationship with residents will go a long way in ensuring that people are, and feel, safe during level 2 of lockdown,” he said. That changed quickly when President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the country would go into a hard lockdown starting on March 26. Gym-goers had to adapt and adjust, using Zoom classes and online workouts as a substitute for going to the gym. Almost five months later, the country has entered level 2 of lockdown with most industries opening up, including fitness. “If we had to go back into a hard lockdown, I would be upset. It's very difficult to give something and then take it away again. We saw that with cigarettes and alcohol,” said Hill. Greece will extend restrictions in the popular holiday island of Mykonos and the coastal area of Chalkidiki in northern Greece to contain the spread of Covid-19 infections, Civil Protection authorities said on Wednesday. The measures include a complete ban on live parties and festivities, a limit of nine people in all public and private gatherings and compulsory mask wearing in closed and open spaces. No more than four people can be seated at the same table in restaurants unless they are very close relatives, in which case the limit is increased to six people. Tourism minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane will brief the media on tourism-related activities under level 2 of the lockdown. SA moved to level 2 on Tuesday. The new rules allow the sale of cigarettes and alcohol. Travel between provinces is now allowed and restrictions on the use of beaches and parks have been lifted. Medication costs for Covid-19 patients hospitalised in the United States have dropped sharply since May, reflecting advances in treatment, shorter stays and use of cheaper generic drugs. But costs may rise again as hospitals start to pay for Gilead Sciences Inc's remdesivir. Research by the health data firm IllumiCare and exclusively shared with Reuters found that hospitals spent $1,090 (about R18,700) per Covid-19 patient on medication in July. That was down from $3,011 (about R51,700) in May among more than 50 hospitals in 10 states that were analysed. —Reuters Durban beachgoers can jog, walk and do yoga on the beach — but they can forget about taking a dip in the ocean for now. eThekwini municipality said while beaches have been declared open under level 2 of the lockdown, “swimming remains prohibited until further notice”. Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said while the regulations allow for activities like jogging, walking, running, yoga and other exercises, the municipality was still “taking the necessary steps to ensure regulations for swimming are in place”. Namibian authorities have warned against the use of elephant dung as a cure for Covid-19 after it was touted on social media. Spokesperson for the department of environment, forestry and tourism in Namibia, Romeo Muyunda, told The Namibian newspaper that the government was aware of the increased demand for elephant dung which is now being sold on social media. “We have seen on social media people selling elephant dung for exorbitant prices. There is a whole hype around it. Before, it wasn't even sold. It was used domestically by people for certain illnesses as one of those traditional medicines. If it was sold, it was rare,” he said. The poor quality of personal protective equipment (PPE) gowns is among the challenges workers at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto have to grapple with. This was revealed by the head of supply chain at the hospital, Ravele Tshikalange, who spoke during a presentation to the deputy public protector, advocate Kholeka Gcaleka, during her inspection visit to the hospital on Wednesday. According to Tshikalange, some of the gowns they received from suppliers were not sterile, while others were short. “That is not a full PPE because it doesn't serve the full purpose of protecting the one using it,” she said. Extravagant musical productions such as Mamma Mia! will need to be scaled down when they go again after the coronavirus lockdowns end, Abba star and Swedish pop impresario Bjorn Ulvaeus says. The 75-year old, who co-penned hits like Waterloo and Dancing Queen for ABBA with fellow member Benny Andersson and the band's manager Stig Anderson, has spent a lot of his time watching movies and listening to books during the pandemic, which has shut theatres and cinemas across the world. He has also found a new love in kayaking. But Ulvaeus is also working on ways to improve social distancing at theatres so that Mamma Mia! and Mamma Mia! The Party can open again soon. —Reuters Now that restrictions on parks have been lifted and you can take your dog for a walk, your furry friend will have the chance to run, play and socialise with other dogs and their owners. This raises a new concern: is your pet at risk of catching Covid-19 and what does this mean for you? A number of sources, including the World Health Organisation (WHO) and US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), have confirmed cases of dogs and cats that have tested positive for Covid-19 after coming into contact with infected humans. That said, Covid-19 still appears to be spread primarily through human-to-human contact. According to Dr Leon de Bruyn, president of the South African Veterinary Association, it doesn’t seem as though infected pets are likely to infect their human owners. In today's episode of Sunday Times Politics Weekly, the politics team discusses DA leader hopeful Mbali Ntuli throwing down the gauntlet on Monday by challenging interim leader John Steenhuisen to four televised debates as the race for the party's top position intensifies. The team also deals with the global embarrassment facing SA as a result of continuing Covid-19 corruption scandals. Join the debate: Private school group Curro has reported a positive influx of new pupils despite Covid-19, though the pandemic has had an effect, particularly on its nursery schools. The group said on Wednesday that the industry faced “structural changes”, and it would be converting nursery schools to primary schools and assisted learning facilities to better utilise its facilities. Pupil numbers increased by 5% to 59,967 during the group’s half year to end-June, though the numbers declined in nursery schools, which are not a compulsory stage of schooling. Ruben Mukhakwedzwa from Nzhelele in Limpopo spends R50 to travel to and from Louis Trichardt to collect his R350 Covid-19 grant. His local post office has not been able to pay him, he says. When GroundUp visited the Makhado municipality post office in Louis Trichardt on Tuesday at 10am, there was a long queue of people waiting for payment of their Covid-19 Social Relief of Distress grants. Most people in the queue were from Nzhelele (87km away), Elim (22km away) and Madombidzha (14km away). They said they have not been served at their local post offices, which run short of money or have network problems. “I lost hope of getting the R350 at our local post office,” said Mukhakwedzwa. The British government said on Wednesday it would expand its Covid-19 national testing study, with an aim of reaching 400,000 people to provide weekly data on the spread of the infection and better locate future local outbreaks. The Department of Health and Social Care said in a statement on Wednesday that it would initially test 150,000 people in England per fortnight by October, up from 28,000 people now, aiming to eventually reach 400,000 across the United Kingdom. The testing survey, undertaken by the Office for National Statistics, would also be extended to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. —Reuters The head of Germany's vaccines regulator said some groups of people living in Germany could be vaccinated early next year against the coronavirus that has killed almost 800,000 worldwide and wreaked havoc on the global economy. More than half a dozen drugmakers around the world are conducting advanced clinical trials, each with tens of thousands of participants, and several expect to know if their Covid-19 vaccines work and are safe by the end of this year. Klaus Cichutek, head of the Paul Ehrlich Institut, told the Funke group of newspapers that data from Phase I and Phase II trials showed some vaccines triggered an immune response against the coronavirus. —Reuters The life expectancy of South Africans is projected to decrease with every 1% decrease in gross domestic product (GDP) as a result of Covid-19, according to a trends report commissioned by Liberty. The Covid-19 Trends Report: Navigating the Flux explores the future health risks of Covid-19 on South Africans. This is associated with the notion that a sick nation directly correlates with a weak economy. Covid-19 has ensured that 2020 will go down in history as a global turning point. But experts say the pandemic and its fallout will be with us for a long time. But predicting the future is tricky, they say, as they explain the best long-term strategies. Health-care workers formed a guard of honour as the body of their colleague, Dr Mohammed Bobat, 56, was taken through the passage of Bongani Regional Hospital in Thabong, Welkom, as a final farewell. Bobat died from Covid-19 related complications last week. He worked in the hospital's department of anaesthesia for over a decade. As many take their first puff of a legally bought cigarette, others will stick to cheaper, illicit brands. This is according to research which predicts that the illicit cigarette and alcohol trade will persist despite the lifting of the sales ban. Health minister Zweli Mkhize hailed health-care workers at the weekend as SA's Covid-19 recovery rate reached 80%. Tourism minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane has warned restaurant and bar owners and managers who break the 10pm curfew that they will be arrested. Kubayi-Ngubane said on Wednesday that she had spoken to restaurant owners and pleaded with them to stick to closing times. Since the country moved to level 2 of the lockdown, restaurants, bars and taverns are allowed to operate and serve alcohol until 10pm.