Russia approves first Covid-19 vaccine, Putin says Russia's health ministry has given regulatory approval for the world's first COVID-19 vaccine, developed by Moscow's Gamaleya Institute, after less than two months of human testing, President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday. The move paves the way for mass inoculation even as the final stages of clinical trials to test safety and efficacy continue. The speed at which Russia is moving to roll out its vaccine highlights its determination to win the global race for an effective product but has stirred concerns that it may be putting national prestige before science and safety. -REUTERS 'It's impossible': David Makhura denounces fake PPE corruption claims involving his family Gauteng premier David Makhura has rubbished claims that members of his family have been involved in personal protective equipment (PPE) tender corruption, saying that legal action will be taken against anyone who makes this claim. “I dismiss, with contempt, the lies posted on social media platforms about the involvement of my immediate family in PPE procurement,” he said in a statement. “As a matter of principle, neither my wife nor children do business with government.” Staff on edge as Covid-19 patients are booked into PE quarantine hotel The five-star Radisson Blu hotel in Summerstrand is being used as a Covid-19 quarantine site and staff are not happy about it, claiming some “stubborn patients refuse to stay in their rooms”. Though the executive assistant manager for the Radisson Blu Port Elizabeth, Elmarie Fritz, confirmed that some patients had not confined themselves to their rooms, she said these were “minimal isolated incidences which were immediately taken care of by the department of health personnel on duty”. 'Unemployment pandemic is gaining momentum': Alan Winde pleads for lifting of booze ban Pressure is mounting on the government to lift the ban on the sale of alcohol and to allow for more economic activity to prevent huge job losses. The DA-led Western Cape provincial government took a firm stance at the weekend, stating that domestic alcohol sales should be allowed immediately, “with smart recommendations in place”. “These positions have been taken with a view to reducing the impact of a second, equally dangerous pandemic: unemployment. We will now engage the national government on these positions,” said Western Cape premier Alan Winde. 'Every cent' of R1.19bn spent in Eastern Cape's Covid-19 fight to be accounted for Every single cent of the R1.19bn spent on buying personal protective equipment and hospital beds in the fight against the spread of Covid-19 in the Eastern Cape will be accounted for. This was the promise from finance MEC Mlungisi Mvoko on Monday. He also vowed that where required legal prescripts were not followed, action would be taken. Through the provincial treasury, the province is investigating a number of complaints relating to the use of taxpayers’ money in the fight against Covid-19. You can now test for Covid-19 at these Gauteng shopping malls Gauteng department of health is expected to open a third mall-based Covid-19 testing station on Tuesday. Worldwide coronavirus cases cross 20.09 million, death toll at 734,243 More than 20.09 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 734,243​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. -REUTERS Parolee released in January denied special R350 grant because he's been 'working' for past 18 months A parolee who came out of prison this year was declined the special R350 grant on the grounds that he has been working for the past 18 months. This is one of the examples of a flawed government system in which legitimate applicants are told they don't qualify for the Covid-19 social relief of distress grant, according to IFP MP Liezl van der Merwe. The 34-year-old Inanda man was released from the Durban B medium prison on parole in January. TimesLIVE has seen his stamped parole papers.