R65.7m paid out by sports, arts and culture relief fund: Nathi Mthethwa The sports, arts and culture ministry says it has paid out R65.7m in the first wave of Covid-19 relief funds. Minister Nathi Mthetwa said this money had catered for various categories, such as the digital applications, the living legends, relief for athletes, as well as relief for arts and culture practitioners. For the second wave, the department said it will be rolling out two processes to implement the sector relief: one for athletes and all technical personnel in the sport sector, and the other focusing on the arts and culture sector. 'I do not run government': Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma grumpy over tobacco ban accusations Cogta minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has lambasted those who associated her directly with the government's decision to ban tobacco sales for five months. Dlamini-Zuma said the people who were pushing this line were using her as a scapegoat. According to her, the decision to ban tobacco, which will be lifted on Tuesday, was never her individual decision as had been the impression created by many. POLL | Are you here for level 2 or nah? South Africans are anticipating the reopening of gyms and beaches, and the sale of alcohol and cigarettes under level 2 of lockdown, which will start on Tuesday. Alcohol will be on sale Mondays to Thursdays, from 9am to 5pm. “Restaurants, bars and taverns will be permitted to operate according to approved protocols as to times of operation and numbers of people. The suspension of the sale of alcohol will be lifted, subject to certain restrictions,” said the president. Dlamini-Zuma calls for vigilance amid fears of second Covid-19 surge linked to eased laws Cogta minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has called on South Africans to remain vigilant as the country introduces level 2 lockdown laws to avoid a second surge of Covid-19 infections. The call came as she gazetted the latest batch of lockdown regulations, which allow for a number of social activities, including the opening of bars, social visits and visiting of families. And with the sale of cigarettes now allowed, Dlamini-Zuma has warned that smokers should not share their cigarettes with others. China's chicken production continues to surge, reducing appetite for imports China's chicken producers are pushing ahead with aggressive expansion plans despite a slump in demand due to the coronavirus, reducing reliance on imports amid recent fears about the safety of foreign meat. The world's No. 2 poultry producer is expected to produce a record 14.85 million tonnes of chicken meat in 2020, according to the United States Department of Agriculture, a substantial increase over last year's 18% rise to 13.75 million tonnes. The significant expansion is boosting demand for key feed grains like corn and soybeans, traders in China say, while pushing down poultry prices. —Reuters OPINION | Does the government have a plan to save economy battered by Covid-19? The economic crisis we’re in is the most serious any of us has experienced. To confront it, we need the very best from our leaders, from business, government, labour and other social partners. Their leadership needs to be focused on driving the implementation of plans and policies that will mobilise our resources to drive a recovery leading to sustainable economic growth. While President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement over the weekend of a shift to level 2 lockdown will enable much more economic activity to resume, this is not,  on its own, a strategy for a recovery. Wine farmers' lockdown challenge set for full bench of high court next week The Southern African Agri-Initiative (Saai), which represents farmers, says it will continue with its legal action to force the government to allow the sale of wine under level 3 of the lockdown restrictions. Saai CEO Francois Rossouw said despite President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement on Saturday that the ban on the sale of alcohol will be lifted from Tuesday when the country moves to level 2 of the lockdown, the organisation still wanted a declaratory order confirming the sale of wine under level 3. “We still want a declaratory order. We should be able to sell wine in level 3,” Rossouw told TimesLIVE on Monday. Two GPs die of Covid-19 in Limpopo, first deaths among province's health workers Limpopo, the province which has until now had no deaths related to Covid-19 among its medical workers, has reported the deaths of two doctors. In a statement, the Limpopo health department said: “The two doctors, aged 57 and 47,  are the first cases of health-care workers in the province to die of complications related to Covid-19. They were both general practitioners working for their own independent practices.” Don't get overexcited about level 2, warns President Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa has warned South Africans against complacency as the country moves to lockdown level 2 on Tuesday. According to Ramaphosa, the country is still at risk of seeing a resurgence of Covid-19 infections which would mean a hard lockdown might be reintroduced. This, he wrote in his weekly newsletter, had happened in New Zealand which was once declared coronavirus-free only to impose lockdown again thanks to a “second wave”. Giving birth in the Covid-19 pandemic: lonely, stressful & anxious “I feel so bad for him. He only knows four people right now in his life and I ...” Her face is eclipsed by the chubby cheeks of a curious baby. Before she can continue, he repeatedly attacks the screen with the palm of his hand, babbling away in baby talk. His bottom milk teeth are obscured when his drool drenches the camera before the call is summarily cut. “Eish, this boy! Sorry sisi, I was saying he doesn’t know any other faces or people except us,” says Maria Beda*, wiping the camera clean. Like Beda, 27-year-old Thembeka Sibiya is concerned that her newborn son will not enjoy the same social life as her seven-year-old son. FULL ADDRESS | Lockdown level 2 implemented Subscribe: iono.fm | Spotify | Apple Podcast | Pocket Casts | Player.fm Wine and cigarette industries to continue with court actions: what you need to know The Southern African Agri-Initiative (Saai) and the Fair-Trade Independent Tobacco Association (Fita) will persist with their respective court actions, despite the bans being lifted on alcohol and tobacco product sales. On Saturday President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the bans would be lifted at midnight on Monday, along with the restriction on interprovincial travel when the country moves to level 2 of the lockdown. Government to brief SA on Covid-19 level 2 lockdown regulations Cabinet ministers who serve in the National Coronavirus Command Council will provide details on the regulations relating to the Covid-19 level 2 restrictions on Monday afternoon. The briefing will start at 2pm, government said in a statement. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Saturday night that restrictions would be eased from Tuesday. 'Happy new year, but be safe': SA on level 2, booze & ciggies Lockdown level 2 will see a number of regulations eased from midnight on Monday after months of tough restrictions implemented by the government to curb the spread of the coronavirus. On Saturday, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the lifting of numerous restrictions, including the bans on alcohol and tobacco product sales, social visits and inter-provincial travel. From celebratory moods to warnings about staying safe and anger towards the government, South Africans had a lot to say about lockdown level 2. British American Tobacco SA (Batsa) will not smoke a peace pipe with the government following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s decision to unban cigarette sales. The tobacco giant and nine other litigants, including farmers, consumers and processors, are awaiting the judgment of a full bench of the high court in Cape Town in their legal fight with cooperate governance & traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Ramaphosa over the ban. The Eastern Cape has reported the most fatalities related to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the latest report from the health ministry revealed on Sunday. Nationally, 162 Covid-19 deaths were reported, with the Eastern Cape accounting for 70. Gauteng accounted for 27 fatalities and KwaZulu-Natal recorded 21. The Western Cape recorded 20 deaths, the North West 18 and the Free State six. The health ministry said Covid-19 has now claimed 11,839 lives. Police minister Bheki Cele said SA has been much safer during the lockdown and ban on alcohol sales. He made the comment while delivering the quarterly crime statistics. While most teenagers would delight on the opportunity to wriggle out of class, one Hillcrest schoolboy is selling masks to pay his own school fees. And within a week, 15-year-old Liam Theunissen raised the R22,000 Africa records 824, 000 recoveries as cases cross 1.1 million Covid-19 cases in Africa have crossed 1.1 million, but of those 824, 000 recoveries have been recorded. India's coronavirus death toll surpasses 50,000 India's death toll from the coronavirus surpassed 50,000 on Monday, as infection numbers surged and total cases were nearly at 2.65 million. The country reported a daily jump of 57,981 infections, taking the total to nearly 2.65 million, third only behind the United States and Brazil. The death toll jumped by 941, with the total now 50,921. -REUTERS Thousands of anxious teachers and pupils are seeking help from psychologists and social workers over fears of contracting Covid-19 at school. So social workers have turned to phone and WhatsApp help as stress wears down kids and adults alike.