Just hours after apologising for featuring Mampintsha on a song, Prince Kaybee has questioned for how long the musician should stay cancelled. Mampintsha faced the wrath of Mzansi last year after his partner Babes Wodumo opened an assault case against him. The matter was later referred to Families SA for mediation and has since been resolved. When Prince Kaybee recently teased a collab with the muso, he was dragged for featuring the star at a time when women were being celebrated and gender-based violence (GBV) was under the spotlight. He apologised for being insensitive and offending some of his followers with the collaboration, but later responded to calls for him to remove Mampintsha from the song by asking for how long the muso should remain in exile. He claimed Mampintsha was willing to use his talents to help others. “Sorry my Queen, I just wanna know how long should we keep removing him because he is willing to use his talent to focus on rehabilitating those he has caused harm [to] and fund organisations through his talent. Not forgetting self-rehabilitation” Kaybee said. He added that he was not looking for a fight, but just asking a simple question. When told it may be triggering to those who see "abusive men carry on with no consequences, just carry on with life in whatever way", Kaybee said the request to remove Mampintsha was a "harsh one". "But that's not what you said sister, you said remove him. Very harsh approach after what the man is willing to do to better himself and encourage other men not to do the same mistakes. I’d like for you to intentionally apply a different approach in understanding forgiveness." Mampintsha also addressed the outrage over the collaboration and pledged to donate 50% of proceeds from the song to organisations that help fight GBV. Mampintsha made headlines last year when a video clip of him slapping Babes several times went viral. Babes and Mampintsha laid charges of assault against each other. Mampintsha was arrested and released on R2,000 bail. The Big Nuz star admitted to hitting Babes but claimed she allegedly assaulted him first.