SA Covid-19 cases near 700,000 South Africa now has 609 773 cases of Covid-19 and the number of deaths due to the pandemic has increased to 13 059, health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize said on Sunday. France reports post-lockdown daily record of 4,897 new COVID cases The French health ministry on Sunday reported 4,897 new coronavirus infections over the past 24 hours, marking the highest daily level since the end of a two-month lockdown in May to combat the pandemic. The ministry said the total coronavirus deaths in the country had risen by one in the past 24 hours to 30,513. -REUTERS Thuli Madonsela calls for meeting with Ramaphosa at online rally against Covid-19 corruption The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation hosted what it called an “online rally” on Friday where former public protector Thuli Madonsela, former cabinet minister Derek Hanekom and Rev Frank Chikane urged civil society to take a stand against corruption. Sandile Zungu, of the Black Business Council, also spoke at the event, describing corruption in SA as being on “steroids”. UK records 1,041 new Covid-19 cases - government data The United Kingdom recorded 1,041 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, down from 1,288 on Saturday, government figures showed. Six people died after testing positive for the coronavirus within the previous 28 days, compared with 18 deaths announced on Saturday. -REUTERS 'No PPE, no work': Zweli Mkhize on safety of front-line workers Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has reiterated the call for the provision of personal protective equipment (PPE) for front-line workers, saying no-one should risk their lives and work without it during the Covid-19 pandemic. He expressed these sentiments after the department’s meeting with six major worker unions at the weekend. Unions raised a variety of issues, from the occupational safety of health-care workers and infrastructure to remuneration issues that have caused great tensions in the workplace. Five months into the pandemic, the availability of PPE remains a concern. Global Covid-19 death toll surpasses 800,000 The global coronavirus death toll surpassed 800,000 on Saturday, according to a Reuters tally, with the United States, Brazil and India leading the rise in fatalities. -REUTERS EU trade chief Hogan won't resign over Ireland Covid-19 breach Phil Hogan will not resign as European Commission for Trade over his attendance at an event in his native Ireland that is being investigated for breaching Covid-19 regulations, an EU official close to the commissioner said on Sunday. "The commissioner is not resigning," the official said. The Irish representative on the European Union's executive was asked on Saturday by Ireland's prime minister and deputy prime minister to consider his position over the golf dinner, which caused public outrage and led to other political resignations. Earlier on Sunday, Hogan apologised again, but stopped short of bowing to calls to quit. -REUTERS Russia expects to produce between 1.5 million and 2 million doses per month of its potential Covid-19 vaccine by the year end, gradually ramping up production to 6 million doses a month, the RIA news agency cited industry minister Denis Manturov as saying on Sunday. Large-scale testing of the vaccine, developed by Moscow's Gamaleya institute, is due to start in Russia next week. - Reuters The chief medical officers of the United Kingdom have said children should return to school after the summer holidays, warning that missing out on their education posed much bigger risks to them than catching Covid-19. The rare joint statement from the top health advisers to the governments of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland represents a boost for British Prime Minister Boris Johnson who has said getting children back to school is a national priority. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has told allies that "failure to reopen schools is not an option", the Sunday Telegraph newspaper reported. Earlier this month, Johnson said reopening schools in September was a social, economic and moral imperative, insisting schools would be able to operate safely despite the Covid-19 pandemic. The Sunday Times reported this month that Johnson had ordered a public relations campaign to ensure schools open on time. -Reuters The Philippines recorded 2,378 new coronavirus infections on Sunday, its smallest daily spike in nearly four weeks, but the nationwide tally rose to 189,601, still the highest in Southeast Asia. In a bulletin, the Department of Health also reported 32 more fatalities, bringing the country's death toll to 2,998. -Reuters The easing of the lockdown increases the risk of spreading Covid-19 and the Gauteng provincial command council has warned residents against relaxing and failing to protect themselves and others against infection. Prof Keolebogile Motaung, chairperson of the provincial research committee and member of the premier’s advisory committee, told a presentation that precautions — referred to as non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) — are even more important during level 2 where there will be more movement and interaction. A politically connected operator named in the PPE scandal besetting the Gauteng health department made an 800% profit on Covid-19 personal protective equipment he sold the government. This is according to court papers naming Thandisizwe Madzikane Diko - a family friend of Gauteng health MEC Bandile Masuku and the husband of President Cyril Ramaphosa's spokesperson Khusela Diko - in detailed claims laid out by the Special Investigating Unit (SIU). It was the Gauteng health department's suspended supply chain chief director, Thandy Pino, who blew the whistle and alerted authorities to the R2bn personal protective equipment (PPE) scandal. A trail of e-mails the Sunday Times obtained show that Pino sounded the alarm in just her second week on the job, pointing out irregularities in Covid-19 contracts being awarded without legal procurement processes being followed. At least four contracts worth a combined R540m for supplying personal protection equipment (PPE) to the police are under scrutiny as the Hawks investigate their own. The Hawks are investigating allegations that police colleagues abused emergency procurement procedures and fraudulently handed multimillion-rand contracts for the supply of masks and sanitisers to four companies: Tsa Bophelo Medical Suppliers & Logistics, Tombo Investments, Basadzi Pele Management Consulting and the Before Sunset Group.