Schools will reopen in Nigeria's commercial hub of Lagos next month as part of plans to revive the economy as Covid-19 cases decline, the state governor said on Saturday. Lagos, the epicentre of the pandemic in Nigeria, plans to reopen colleges on Sept. 14, and primary and secondary school schools on Sept. 21, Babajide Sanwo-Olu said. "The gradual easing doesn't mean the pandemic is over," he said in a tweet. "It is not an invitation to carelessness or nonchalance." US cases of the novel coronavirus were approaching 6 million on Sunday as many Midwest states reported increasing infections, according to a Reuters tally. Iowa, North Dakota, South Dakota and Minnesota have recently reported record one-day increases in new cases while Montana and Idaho are seeing record numbers of currently hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Nationally, metrics on new cases, deaths, hospitalisations and the positivity rates of tests are all declining but there are emerging hotspots in the Midwest. Global coronavirus cases surged past 25 million on Sunday, according to a Reuters tally, as India marked a worldwide record for daily new cases in the Covid-19 pandemic. The data showed steady global growth as the disease's epicentre shifts again, with India taking centre stage from the US and Latin America. India's single-day tally of 78,761 new coronavirus infections on Sunday exceeded the one-day increase of 77,299 reported by the US in mid-July. The south Asian country's surge took the global caseload to 25,074,751. —Reuters Hundreds of donations of blood plasma from Covid-19 survivors are sitting on ice waiting to be trialled on severely ill patients in SA. The South African National Blood Service (SANBS) has been collecting the antibody-rich plasma from people who have fully recovered from the disease in the first part of a national trial to establish whether it can be an effective treatment. As soon as it gets the green light from the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA), the next phase of the trial, which involves putting the plasma into patients who need it, will be rolled out. After months of being starved of socialising over a meal or drink, many South Africans have shed their inhibitions — and masks — and have been partying up a storm since lockdown level 2 kicked in two weeks ago. Scenes from many night spots, pubs and restaurants in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal show patrons disregarding social distancing norms and some establishments ignoring the drinks curfew despite concern over a possible second wave of Covid-19 infections. Videos on social media shot in Chartwell Drive in Umhlanga Rocks, known for its wall-to-wall restaurants, this week show patrons, without masks, partying on the street while waiting in line to enter eateries. The Eastern Cape education department seemingly bungled the supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) to schools after issuing a list that was riddled with inaccuracies. The list was given to the provincial legislature. The blunders come amid calls for the government to act against those implicated in the country's PPE procurement scandal. One of the most glaring errors in the provincial education department's list was that Beezee Bee Events had been awarded a R5.6m contract for the supply of PPE to 52 schools in the OR Tambo inland district. This was not the case. Northern Cape premier Zamani Saul has been dragged into a Covid-19 procurement scandal after revelations that a politician's spouse and a politically connected business owner benefited from multimillion-rand contracts to supply personal protective equipment (PPE) and other goods and services linked to fighting the pandemic. The Sunday Times can reveal that Mandisa Shushu, the wife of Saul's special adviser Norman Shushu, was awarded a R13m tender to supply the police with 1-million masks. Norman is a former MEC of agriculture, land reform & rural development in the province.