Transport minister Fikile Mbalula has reiterated a call for the adoption of laws that would prohibit motorists from getting behind the wheel of a car having consumed even a drop of alcohol. Mbalula made the call for the Road Traffic Amendment Bill to swiftly become law. He was speaking on Tuesday, after a weekend of carnage on the roads. The deaths and injuries took place during the first weekend since the reintroduction of the sale of alcohol under level 2 of the country's lockdown laws. South Africa recorded another day of low Covid-19 infections on Tuesday, with 1,567 new cases confirmed in the past 24 hours. The number of confirmed cases comes after 1,677 infections were recorded on Monday - and appears to point towards a slowing of the infection rates across the country. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga says the government is satisfied that its systems are ready - and have been ready - for the reopening of schools this week. Motshekga told MPs that the department did everything possible to make sure they prioritise the safety of pupils, teachers and other staff working at schools. She was participating in a heated parliamentary debate on the phased-in reopening of schools, where opposition parties – both for and against the reopening of schools - criticised the government's decisions on the handling of basic education as it related to the pandemic. Durban communities have rallied behind a call for help to donate 10 tons of rice that will feed 250,000 people. The nonsectarian feeding scheme Food For Life and TPA Humanity, run by Durban lawyer Theasen Pillay, joined forces to help alleviate food security issues facing Durban communities due to Covid-19. When they realised the need was greater than what they could supply, they turned to the public and asked people to donate a bag of rice. In just one month, 10 tons was donated. For many, lockdown has been a dry patch when it comes to sex. A study by Indiana University in the US found that half of all those surveyed said their sexual activity had decreased during lockdown. A separate survey online found that 63% of couples had experienced “sexual challenges” during lockdown, while one in five couples were not having sex at all. No such study has been conducted in SA. The presidency has poured cold water on speculation that President Cyril Ramaphosa would address SA on Tuesday night - and that the booze ban would be reinstated. Voice notes and text messages were circulating widely on Tuesday, claiming that the booze ban would be brought back. The messages led to a public outcry, and to some people rushing to alcohol outlets to stock up. President Cyril Ramaphosa has postponed his planned question and answer session with the SA National Editors' Forum (Sanef). The session was scheduled to take place on Tuesday night, but according to a statement from the presidency, Ramaphosa is seized with commitments of national importance, including a meeting of the national coronavirus command council (NCCC). Health minister Zweli Mkhize praised the response of health-care workers to the Covid-19 pandemic during a panel discussion with experts on Monday evening. Panellists included ministerial advisory committee chairperson Prof Salim Abdool Karim and the president of the SA Heart Association and cardiologist at Netcare Linksfield Clinics, Dr David Jankelow. Here are five quotes from the minister: The Gauteng provincial legislature wants premier David Makhura to submit a report about alleged corruption related to Covid-19 food parcels. In a full sitting of the house, the provincial legislature adopted a budget vote report. The report, among other things, calls for Makhura to present a report to the legislature on the food parcel programme. Two KwaZulu-Natal police sergeants appeared in the Durban specialised commercial crimes court on Tuesday for allegedly defrauding the UIF's Covid-19 relief fund of nearly R700,000. Sgt Thokozani Mchunu from the Durban Central tactical response team and his co-accused, Sgt Nqobile Mzimela of the Durban tracking team and Siboniso Khanyile, made a brief appearance in the Durban Specialised Commercial Crimes Court on Tuesday. Court documents containing bank transactions revealed that Mchunu allegedly spent R90,000 to purchase land. Coughing in public is enough to make you an instant pariah — even if it’s just the result of an innocent scratch in your throat. That’s because having a dry cough, fever or difficulty breathing are the most highly publicised — and common symptoms — of the coronavirus. We were made hyper aware of Covid-19 symptoms early on in the pandemic, but as researchers and doctors have learnt more about the virus, a list of rather unusual symptoms has started emerging including 'Covid toes', which became an interesting topic of discussion. Here are a few other less common symptoms to look out for: LISTEN | Something must be done to save 2020 school year, say experts Subscribe for free: iono.fm | Spotify | Apple Podcasts | Pocket Casts | Player.fm Tutorials in key subjects to help this year's matric pupils will be broadcast on free to air television channels from next week. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga said the initiative will give pupils the support they need to prepare for the final exams after an academic year disrupted by Covid-19. “This initiative has come at the right time, when we are working to get schooling back on track. Matric is always stressful, but 2020 has been filled with unusual stresses. It is abundantly clear additional support is required for pupils and we will continue to provide this. There are a few months left before the end of the year, and Woza Matrics will give pupils the support they need to prepare for the final exams,” she said. An experimental Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca could be put before regulators this year if scientists are able to gather enough data, the director of the Oxford Vaccine Group said on Tuesday. "It is just possible that if the cases accrue rapidly in the clinical trials, that we could have that data before regulators this year, and then there would be a process that they go through in order to make a full assessment of the data," Andrew Pollard told BBC Radio. The Oxford vaccine showed early promise in the first human trial when it produced an immune response, underlining its position as one of the leading candidates in the race to produce a vaccine against a disease that has crippled the global economy. —Reuters The Covid-19 pandemic has brought with it a slew of delays for the judicial system, including the trial of a KwaZulu-Natal mother accused of murdering her six-year-old daughter. Fungai Nyamadzawo, mother of slain Alexia, made a brief appearance in the KwaDukuza magistrate's court on Tuesday where her mental observation report from Fort Napier psychiatric hospital was expected to be submitted. However, the court heard that Fort Napier was not accepting candidates for evaluation due to Covid-19. The Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital in Soweto had 2,797 emergency cases in April and May, compared with 5,163 cases for the same period last year. In July, the facility recorded 1,326 emergencies compared with 2,363 for the same month in 2019. This is according to Gauteng health department data, released on Tuesday. The acting Gauteng MEC for health, Jacob Mamabolo, has directed the provincial health department to compile a full report on all long-outstanding disciplinary cases, to immediately commence with hearings and fast track those cases already under way. As most of SA's pupils returned to the classroom on Monday, 21-year-old Sharon Ndlovu was not feeling optimistic about what remains of the academic year. She said she was anxious, confused, pressured and felt that not enough information had been given. “There is too much pressure. We were told that we are only attending for this week and we will take a break and then return again. I am scared that I am not going to cope because we are getting too much work to do in a short time,” she said. Allaying a child’s fears of Covid-19 when her teacher has succumbed to the virus is tough, parents tell us. An expert explains how to help them through it. Poor infrastructure, shortages of staff and medication, and ailing patients forced to wait in the rain — these were among the problems health activists and human rights monitors found at clinics in Uitenhage and Despatch last week. “We are concerned that in the fight against Covid-19, we have neglected primary health care services especially in the Eastern Cape. Covid-19 is not raising new issues but rather highlighting pre-existing issues,” said Ncumisa Willie, research adviser to South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) chairperson Bongani Majola. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula says the government needs to review laws relating to access to alcohol.