Co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma briefed the media on Monday on new level 2 lockdown regulations. Here are six important quotes from her address: “After a rapid rise of infections over the month of June and July, the daily increases and infections recently appear to be stabilising. There is a noticeable decrease, particularly in the larger provinces — the Western Cape, Gauteng, Eastern Cape. However, KwaZulu-Natal still provides some challenges, but we hope it will decline soon as well.” “Over and above the improved national recovery rate, and more than 80% of infected people are recovering, the fatality rate is also less than 2%. This suggests that the prevention measures that SA and all South Africans have implemented have been effective.” “The sale of alcohol at all off-sale and retail outlets is permitted with restrictions, on Monday to Thursday from 9am-5pm. Alcohol will be served also at restaurants, bars and taverns  which are licensed. These establishments can operate with a maximum of 50 patrons, as long as their health and hygiene protocols are observed — including sanitising, washing of hands and social distancing.” “Gyms and fitness centres are also permitted to conduct business, with a maximum of 50 people at a time. The resumption of water-based activities and certain categories of tourism activities, including boat-based whale watching, scuba diving [and] shark cage diving ... are also open subject to health protocols.” “As long as there are no more than 10 visitors at a time and health protocols of wearing masks, sanitisation, washing of hands and safe social distancing are observed. Older people are at risk and their mortality rate is high. So it is important that when you visit, you still stick to the protocols.” “Funerals and weddings are now permitted, as long as there are no more than 50 people gathered. The night vigils are still not permitted. Funerals are still limited to 50 people wearing masks and washing hands. We must exercise more caution and be more vigilant than before.”