Zimbabwe’s ruling  Zanu-PF party says ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule  is “completely out of order” for entertaining enemies of the state and allegedly taking sides with the opposition in the country. Magashule appeared on SABC news on Thursday evening and disclosed that some ANC members met exiled Zimbabwean politicians  and were briefed on the situation  in SA's northern neighbour. Pictures of Magashule with exiled former G40 members of Zanu-PF, Saviour Kasukuwere, Walter Mzembi and Robert Zhuwao, a nephew  of former president Robert Mugabe, were shared on social media. Zanu-PF  acting information and publicity secretary Patrick Chinamasa said in a statement: “Zanu-PF categorically states that Cde Magashule’s utterances were completely out of order.” Zanu-PF added that Magashule was “an embarrassment not only to himself but the organisation he represents” for believing that there was a crisis in Zimbabwe. Chinamasa said SA was encroaching into matters that it did not have a right to. “We note that this is not the first time when a senior ANC leader has sought to speak like Zimbabwe’s prefect in similar fashion,” Chinamasa added, with reference to former president Jacob Zuma’s international relations adviser, Lindiwe Zulu, who was called a street walker and idiot by Mugabe in 2013. SA announced on Thursday it would send former security minister Sydney Mufamadi and former speaker of parliament Baleka Mbete as special envoys to Zimbabwe. Zimbabweans feel Mafumadi and Mbete  are a weak choice. “We all know she [Mbete] is a close friend of Mnangagwa. She even supported the military coup in November 2017. We strongly feel there’s need for a tougher person,” said political analyst Pedzisai Ruhanya. Describing his escape from Zimbabwe before the coup,  Mnangagwa said: “Mbete is a good friend of mine. She came to where I was hiding and she told President Jacob Zuma that I was there.” Zimbabweans are calling for more action against Mnangagwa's regime. August 10 is earmarked for a shutdown but due to a crackdown on demonstrators, organisers have remained anonymous.