Prof Salim Abdool Karim on Monday night warned that the current decline in the daily number of Covid-19 infections was not an indication that the worst was over yet. Abdool Karim, chairperson of the Covid-19 ministerial advisory committee and one of the country's most esteemed epidemiologist, was speaking during a webinar hosted by the Gauteng General Practitioners Collaboration. SA recorded 100 new Covid-19 related deaths in the past 24 hours, health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize said on Monday. The Hawks on Monday arrested three people, including two police officers, after they allegedly pocketed over R692,000 in UIF funds. The trio were apprehended in Durban by the Germiston serious corruption investigation assets unit, said spokesperson Capt Ndivhuwo Mulamu. The funds in question were meant for a company that had applied for relief from the fund. Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has blamed Covid-19 and outstanding information from the Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) for the government's failure to act against the alleged sterilisation of HIV-positive women in public hospitals. Mkhize revealed on Monday that he met the commission the day after it published a shocking report on forced and coerced sterilisation of HIV-positive women. “At that meeting we acknowledged the seriousness of the allegations levelled against the department of health, the relevant institutions and the health professionals [though not identified] implicated,” said Mkhize in a written reply to a parliamentary question. Acting Gauteng health MEC Jacob Mamabolo received the first set of CPAP ventilators to be used to fight Covid-19 at Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital in Johannesburg on Monday. The hospital had already put six CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) ventilators to the test, before receiving 36 mor The government has come out strongly against alcohol abuse, following several booze-related crashes and arrests in the days after the controversial ban was lifted. In a statement on Monday, government spokesperson Phumla Williams slammed the alcohol-related incident that led to death of City of Tshwane metro police officers. Two Saps members were also arrested among the 740 taken into custody for allegedly driving under the influence at the weekend. On Monday August 24 2020, SA hit 150 days of lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We zoom back to March 27, when the country began its lockdown, and highlight significant moments over the next five months showing what South Africans have been through during a tumultuous 2020. KwaZulu-Natal education MEC Kwazi Mshengu says the province is not facing a teaching crisis, despite more than 6,000 applications by educators to stay at home. “We are not really under crisis in terms of replacing those teachers. Others have agreed to come and teach their lessons and go back home. For those who will be at home full-time, other educators will be able to take over their subjects so we don’t need a substitute teacher,” said Mshengu. Mshengu was addressing the media at Zwelibanzi High School in Umlazi, south of Durban, on Monday. He was there to inspect the school's readiness as the province geared up to welcome back 2.8 million students who returned to 6,148 schools in KwaZulu-Natal on Monday. President Cyril Ramaphosa has called for a new climate-resilient economy as the country rebuilds after the coronavirus pandemic. In his weekly newsletter on Monday, Ramaphosa said an important aspect of the economy after Covid-19 should be its ability to withstand climate change. “As we work with our social partners to develop an urgent economic recovery programme, we are determined that we should not merely return to where we were before the pandemic struck. We are instead looking at actions that will build a new, inclusive economy that creates employment and fosters sustainable growth. The 187 Cuban medical personnel who arrived in the country in April have been of great help in SA’s fight against Covid-19. This is according to health minister Zweli Mkhize, who was responding to parliamentary questions for written reply filed by DA leader John Steenhuisen. Mkhize detailed how the Cuban team was spread around the country. Covid-19 has claimed the life of the deputy director-general of welfare services in the department of social development, Connie Nxumalo. The department said Nxumalo died in the early hours on Saturday. Nxumalo was a qualified social worker with a master’s degree in public and development management. She was also a front-line worker in the country’s fight against Covid-19, the department said. Police minister Bheki Cele, who supported the suspension of alcohol sales during the  coronavirus lockdown, expressed anger on Monday at the death of Tshwane metro police officers in a collision involving a suspected drunk driver. The incident happened at the weekend, just days after the alcohol sales ban was lifted. “The lives of these young officers were cut short by a man who chose to drink and act irresponsibly. While the alcohol ban has been lifted under lockdown level 2, it still remains the responsibility of those who consume alcohol to do so without putting themselves and those around them in danger,” said Cele. President Cyril Ramaphosa needs to take real action against ANC members who are found guilty of corruption, angry South Africans said in response to the president's letter to party members on Sunday. In the seven-page letter, Ramaphosa said the anger of South Africans towards the ruling party is justified. He said while there has been some progress in tackling corruption and recovering money  lost to government in the state-owned entities Eskom and Transnet, more work needs to be done. “It is criminal and it is murder. It has to stop.” These are the words of World Health Organisation (WHO) director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus regarding personal protective equipment (PPE) corruption in SA. Speaking during a media briefing in Geneva, Switzerland, over the weekend, Ghebreyesus said corruption related to supplies of PPE during the Covid-19 pandemic was unacceptable. The Eastern Cape health department has denied claims it paid a dead man close to R1m after his company and name appeared on the list of companies awarded work in the province. Odwa Matshaya’s friends and relatives spoke to Daily Dispatch last week, saying they were shocked to see his name on the list as he had died two years ago. A relative said Matshaya’s 2KS Construction company was on the list of those which had benefited. However, on Sunday the health department said the director of 2KS Construction was Nceba Kwakweni, not Matshaya. —DispatchLIVE A 47-year-old man was arrested after he was caught driving 204km/h on the N3 freeway  on Sunday, Ekurhuleni metro police (EMPD) said. EMPD spokesman Kobeli Mokheseng said the man driving a BMW M5 claimed  he was taking his friend to hospital after he “noticed symptoms of Covid-19”. In the wake of discredited disinfectant tunnels, the new hard sell is the disinfectant fogger. But many of them have not been proven to be effective against viruses, much less the new coronavirus. Master KG's hit song Jerusalema has brought some light during the Covid-19 pandemic gripping the world. The song, which has been dubbed a “global anthem”, was released in December last year. It was well received on the continent and later sparked the #JerusalemaDanceChallenge which saw thousands of people across the globe taking part. Health minister Zweli Mkhize says SA's Covid-19 recovery rate is a positive sign the country is moving away from its infection peak. Speaking at last week's release of the United Nations Development Programme's (UNDP) Socio-Economic Impact Assessment of Covid-19 on SA, Mkhize said the country was now passing the “infection point”. The programme analyses the impact on the economy, and examines how people within different demographics residing in different geographical areas are affected by Covid-19. A 42-year-old Krugersdorp man who spent hours behind bars after being arrested for being in possession of sealed cigarettes during the lockdown has been acquitted in a test case brought by AfriForum.