What are we doing to make the lives of women and children in SA better? What do we enjoy every day that women and children in SA have to fight harder for? What can we do to make a woman or child’s life more safe? How do we remove the barriers to their success? The Mall of Africa and Bombani Shelter for Abused Women and Children is stepping up. Will you? Established in 1999, Bombani is an NPO, based in Alexandra, Johannesburg,  that removes victims from abusive and dangerous environments and offers temporary shelter to women who have experienced severe abuse by their partners and strangers. In partnership with the Mall of Africa, Sunday Times Gen Next, which focuses on youth issues, is encouraging shoppers to be part of the solution by donating the following necessities to the Bombani Shelter for Abused Women and Children: 1. The person that donated the most will stand a chance to win the R10,000 Mall of Africa voucher. 2. Donations can be placed at the Mall of Africa’s information desk situated on the upper level of the mall opposite the iStore. 3. Shoppers are asked to include their name and contact details with their donation and post a picture using the hashtags #endGBV #MOA and #STGenNext on Facebook or Instagram. 4. Tag The Mall of Africa on Facebook or Instagram and Arena Events on Facebook and Instagram. 5. By doing this, you become eligible to win a Mall of Africa shopping spree voucher worth R10,000 (first prize) or a voucher worth R5,000 (second prize). 6. The winners of the Mall of Africa vouchers will be announced on August 31 2020 via social media. Terms and conditions: This competition is undertaken by Mall of Africa (“promoter”). These rules are the official rules of the competition (“competition rules”). The competition rules will govern and apply to this competition. Please take note of and review these competition rules. By your participation in the competition, you agree that these competition rules will govern all aspects of your relationship with the competition, the agents or advisors connected to the competition and the promoter and the sponsor. The promoter reserves the right to make any changes to the competition at any given time without prior notice. The competition rules can only be modified or amended by the promoter (in its reasonable discretion) in a written revision of the competition rules posted on the Mall of Africa’s website or by way of any other official competition communication procedures (at the promoter’s sole discretion) to reach as wide a participating audience as is reasonably possible in the circumstances. Eligibility and participation 1.1. The competition is organised and undertaken by the promoter and the sponsors.1.2. Any person who is a director, member, business partner, employee or agent of or consultant to the promoter or sponsors or any of their immediate families, including spouses, life partners, parents, children, brothers or sisters or any tenants or their employees of the Shopping Centre or sponsors or any other person who directly or indirectly controls or is controlled by the promoter or sponsors is not eligible to participate in this competition.1.3. Any person who is a supplier of goods or services in connection with this competition is not eligible to participate in this competition.1.4. The competition is open to all residents residing in Gauteng. All participants under the age of 18 years must be with a legal guardian or parent when collecting your prize.  Bring along your valid ID or passport when collecting your prize.1.5. Optional spending money and all items of a personal nature, including travel insurance are not included in the prize. Entries and closing date 2.1.  The competition runs from Sunday, August 9 until Sunday, August 30 2020. No late entries will be accepted.2.2.  Winners will be announced on Monday, August 31 2020 via the social media pages of Mall of Africa.2.3. Vouchers are to be collected after the winner's announcement from Centre Management between office hours, Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5pm only, or as per the individual terms and conditions. 2.4. Prizes are to be redeemed at participating tenants or at any Mall of Africa tenants, unless otherwise stated in the individual terms and conditions.2.5.  Uncollected prizes will expire within three months after the winners have been announcement and may not be collected after this.2.6. Prizes that remain unredeemed, within three months after the winners have been announced will expire unless otherwise stated in the individual terms and conditions.2.7.  The promoter does not accept any responsibility for any entries that are lost or delayed.2.8. Faxes and photocopies of entries are not accepted.2.9.  Only entries which are displayed on the promoter’s records will be deemed to be the only successful entries in this competition. Prize 3.1. Prizes are to be collected from Centre Management during office hours.3.2. The prize is not transferable and cannot be exchanged for cash.3.3. The promoter reserves the right to substitute a prize of equal or greater value if the original prize is unavailable within the specified dates. 3.4. The promoter or sponsors are not responsible for any damage to the prize or loss thereof on signature of receipt by the prize winner. 3.5. All costs above and beyond what the sponsors are providing are for the winner’s own account.3.6. All risk and liability pertaining to the prize shall pass to the winner on signature of receipt by the prize winner.3.7. If the winner is unable to accept the prize or in the event that the promoter is unable to contact the prize winner, the promoter reserves the right to draw the prize again.3.8. The winner indemnifies the promoter and sponsors, their directors, their agents, employees, their affiliates, their advertising agencies, their suppliers, their consultants or their advisors and holds the promoter and sponsors, their directors, agents, employees, their affiliates, their advertising agencies, their suppliers, their consultants or their advisors harmless against all and any claims including, but not limited to, any substitution of the prize that may arise as a result of the competition and/or prize awarded to any winner including, but not limited to, any substitution of the prize.