Mbalula hints at lockdown looming for taxis, buses and trains Transport minister Fikile Mbalula provided some insight on Wednesday into how the looming lockdown would affect public transport in the country. He said it was envisaged that minibus taxis would be allowed to operate for a limited time during morning and afternoon peak hours to ferry people authorised to move around,  such as essential-services personnel. “A lockdown is a lockdown ... There will be special catering for public transport, we will deal with the details later on in terms of taxis. We’re looking at allocating time for the operation of taxis in the morning peak and in the afternoon. During the day it will be lockdown,” he said in an interview with Radio 702. “Trains, we’re looking at not operating at all. Long distance has been shut down in terms of Shosholoza Meyl ... We are looking at intensifying in the aviation sector that airlines from affected countries should not come to South Africa.” Gauteng's homeless to be housed at schools during lockdown: Lesufi Gauteng's government is planning to move homeless people, who largely depend on begging to survive, into public schools for the duration of the 21-day lockdown. Addressing the media with cabinet colleagues on Wednesday, education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said the provincial government had identified a number of schools with boarding facilities to house the homeless. Stellenbosch council offers payment holiday to hardest-hit ratepayers Ratepayers in Stellenbosch who can prove that their income has been hit by the coronavirus crisis will get a three-month rates holiday, councillors decided at an emergency meeting on Wednesday. “Once the crisis is over, the municipality will work with applicants to repay the principal outstanding debt on reasonable terms and without the accrual of any new interest,” said MP Leon Schreiber, the DA constituency head for Stellenbosch. Ladysmith Covid-19 patient arrested for not self quarantining A Ladysmith salon owner who tested positive for coronavirus has been charged with attempted murder, for continuing to work at his business and disregarding an instruction to self quarantine. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo said a list of 27 people, who were at the salon, and a religious gathering, are being sought for testing after coming into contact with the 52-year-old man. KZN campsite owner pitches tents for free use by the state A campsite owner in northern KwaZulu-Natal has invited the state to make use of his facility, free of charge, during the 21-day lockdown period. Thokozani Mabaso, 42, the owner of Ngodini Bunduz – an adventure and games campsite, situated along the Mlathuze river outside eShowe – has pitched 30 of his own tents for use by the army or health care workers. 'We have been flooded with calls': government on food delivery services during lockdown The department of tourism has reiterated its stance on the operation of food delivery services saying on Wednesday that they would not be allowed to operate during the 21-day nationwide lockdown. Several food delivery services have informed customers they will still offer a service during the shutdown  there appeared to be confusion over whether some would be exempt or not. “We have been flooded with calls seeking clarity on this and have maintained that all food delivery services will not be permitted to operate and will need to close down as they have not been included on the list of what has been deemed essential services,” the department's spokesperson Hlengiwe Nhlabathi said on Wednesday. Prince Charles self-isolating at home after testing positive for Covid-19 Prince Charles has tested positive for the new coronavirus, his office said on Wednesday. The 71-year-old is displaying mild symptoms of Covid-19 "but otherwise remains in good health", Clarence House said in a statement. The Duchess of Cornwall has also been tested for the virus but the results are negative, Sky News reported. Zweli Mkhize answers questions about SA's lockdown Health minister Zweli Mkhize talked about the lockdown and how the coronavirus spreads on Wednesday morning. Further details are expected in the afternoon during the security cluster briefing, but this is what he said. 'It's worse than Christmas': car guard on panic buying Payday brought with it a flurry of panic buyers, who rushed to retail outlets across Durban on Wednesday morning before the lockdown was implemented. Members of the public queued outside, trolleys at the ready, while security officers restricted the number of people allowed into stores, in line with government's regulation of not more than 100 people being allowed to gather in one place. Boss gives staff Netflix subscriptions, early salaries to ease lockdown stress As many businesses panic about surviving the coronavirus lockdown, a digital consultancy and marketing firm in Johannesburg has sent staff home with an early payday and Netflix subscriptions to keep them occupied for the next 21 days. Rebecca Karlovic, who joined the company in Fourways at the beginning of March, shared the good news on social media. You should still be able to walk the dog and jog during lockdown, says Zweli Mkhize Health minister Zweli Mkhize offered a ray of hope to SA’s dog owners and runners on Wednesday morning, saying these activities would be permitted during the three-week national lockdown, which begins at midnight on Thursday. The lockdown announced by Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday night is intended to limit contact between people as much as possible and is focused on ending the mingling of large groups of people, said Mkhize. However, people would still be able to go for a jog, or walk their dog, he said. Gran celebrates 96th birthday while social distancing A Fish Hoek woman's family were not on the fence on how to celebrate her 96th birthday, instead they were behind it. Betty Tilling's grandchildren and great-grandchildren celebrated her birthday “from afar” while practising social distancing on Sunday. Covid-19 cases jump to 709 in SA Health minister Zweli Mkhize has announced that the number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 has increased to 709 cases overnight. There was an increase of 155 cases in a day up from 554 from Tuesday. Hospital visits suspended from today: Netcare All visiting hours for general wards, ICUs and high care units will be suspended with immediate effect, hospital group Netcare announced on Wednesday. “In light of the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic, we needed to take extraordinary measures to protect all health care teams and our patients who cannot be discharged,” said Dr Richard Friedland, Netcare CEO. Coronavirus lockdown in SA: Mzansi has questions about 'midnight' The hashtag #Thursdaymidnight is trending on Twitter as many grapple with when the national lockdown will come into effect. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Monday that SA would be on national lockdown which will take effect on Thursday, March 26 at midnight. Thursday midnight will be at 00:00. This means Friday, March 27 is the first day of the shutdown. PICTURES | SA shoppers ignore pleas to stop panic buying and stockpiling It has been less than 48 hours since President Cyril Ramaphosa urged South Africans not to stockpile ahead of the coronavirus lockdown. Despite the plea, chain stores such as Checkers, Pick n Pay and Makro have seen shoppers filling up their trolleys and breaking social-distancing protocols. Take a look.