Water and sanitation minister Lindiwe Sisulu said government procured 41,000 water tankers to provide water to under developed areas in SA during the 21-day lockdown. Sisulu was speaking during a media briefing comprising of ministers representing the Covid -19 national command council  where they gave feed back on the state of the country in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic. The City of Cape Town says the coronavirus pandemic has given them an opportunity to tackle the city's massive homelessness problem with the urgency it deserves. But homeless people say that without proper therapy for drug addicts and medical facilities to treat underlying diseases, these shelters  could become a hotbed for transmission of the deadly SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 disease. According to mayoral committee member for community services and health Zahid Badroodien, the first phase of a plan to get the city's estimated 4,000 street people into homeless shelters will create up to 1,000 new beds, permanently. But this means only a quarter of people will be off the street as the project is rolled out in Cape Town's CBD over the next week. On Saturday the army and the police had been trying for two days to curb movement in the Cape Town city centre in line with the national lockdown to stop the spread of the virus. Police used heavy-handed tactics to enforce the 21-day national lockdown in Hillbrow, Johannesburg, on Saturday, firing rubber bullets and sjamboking those who would not get off the streets. Scores of SA Police Service officers, Johannesburg metro police and Gauteng traffic officers descended on the area on Saturday afternoon. With sires blaring, officers cordoned off streets, screaming at people, many of whom were queuing outside small spaza shops. “We are the law! We are the law! Now, f*k off!,” yelled a sergeant at shoppers outside a spaza shop after which terrified people started running for cover. Members of the South African National Defence Force have been deployed to a men's hostel in Alexandra township, north of Johannesburg on the second day of the 21-day lockdown. Cambridge police have closed off all entrances to Cambridge West Location in East London. Vehicles were searched and turned away. Community members were seen roaming around disregarding the lockdown regulations set out by government. Some were seen washing their vehicles. In Duncan Village it was business as usual. A number of informal car washes were in operation and police were just patrolling and not enforcing regulations. Some informal tshisa nyamas were also operational. Spaza shops operated by foreign nationals were operating in Parkside also in East London. The Motsepe foundation has pledged R1-billion toward the fight against the spreading of the coronavirus. Mining mogul Patrice Motsepe and his wife Dr. Precious briefed the media along with financial services company Sanlam executives to make the announcement. A group of Rhodes university scientists have set up a laboratory where they will be producing hand sanitisers to meet demand as there is a shortage in supply. In a statement the university said the team is being led by professor Rod Walker, a registered Pharmacist with the South African Pharmacy Council. "The production of sanitiser commenced on Friday, 20 March 2020 when the University’s suppliers of sanitiser were not able to meet their demands for the products." “We made the first batch for the University’s central cleaning services and made two batches for a local non-profit organisation, Ubunye Foundation,” said Walker. "The team, which includes postgraduate students in the Sterile Products Laboratory in the Faculty of Pharmacy, aims to produce between 300 and 450 litres a day. The sanitisers are strictly made according to the World Health Organisation guidelines." Congress of the People (Cope) leader Mosiuoa Lekota will on Saturday be going for a Covid-19 test. This comes after African Christian Democratic Party leader Reverend Kenneth Meshoe and MP Steve Swart tested postive for the virus. In a statement Cope said Lekota and other political party leaders attended a meeting with Meshoe a few days ago. "The tests will be done at the Morningside Clinic in Sandton, Johannesburg at 10h00 this morning (Saturday)." Health minister Zweli Mkhize has reminded South Africans about some of the rules and regulations locals are expected to adhere to during the 21-day lockdown. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula says 22,347 traffic officials have been deployed across the country to ensure motorists comply with government's 21-day lockdown. Mbalula said this deployment is also in rural areas. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa was also in contact with African Christian Democratic Party leader Reverend Kenneth Meshoe. "Rev Meshoe’s #CoronavirusTest results yesterday, changed everything." Soldiers on foot were out in full force in parts of Alexandra township, north of Johannesburg, on day 1 of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Friday. From about 4pm, a TimesLIVE reporter and photographer  who had been tracking the soldiers from earlier in the day, joined them on their foot patrol about the township. With their white gloves on the barrel of their guns, the men in camouflage put on their blue surgical masks as they embarked on their patrol. Sitting outside his house, one elderly man continued to read his book, paying no attention to the approaching soldiers. Closing his book and lifting his chair, he told the soldiers off as they sternly told him to get inside his house. SA rugby legend Danie Gerber has tested positive for Covid-19. Gerber, 61, was diagnosed in Port Elizabeth on Friday. The World Rugby Hall of Fame star, who lives in Bluewater Bay, played 24 test matches for the Springboks between 1980 and 1992. In an interview at 10pm on Friday night, Gerber was in high spirits stating that he only found out in the afternoon. “I am shocked. I cannot believe it. I am just worried about my family now. They are now awaiting results.” Gerber said he had been on about six different aircraft over the past two weeks including flights between Johannesburg, Pretoria and Cape Town.