The Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) in SA is a statutory council that conducts policy-focused research in the humanities and social sciences, for the public good. The focus of its work is to generate knowledge towards the reduction of poverty and inequality and improved quality of life. The organisation employs 450 staff in offices in Pretoria, Cape Town, Durban and Pietermaritzburg (Sweetwaters). The council seeks to appoint a person who will lead the HSRC in implementing its five-year strategic plan, strengthen research & development in the humanities and social sciences in SA, and develop and solidify partnerships with local, continental and international partners. This is a contract position for five years and may be renewable for a second term at the discretion of the board. The successful applicant can be based in Cape Town or Pretoria. Key areas of responsibility of the CEO are to: To achieve the above mandate, the successful applicant will ideally have: Minimum requirements Recommended additional requirements: a management qualification in addition to a PhD degree would be an advantage. Given these demanding requirements, the HSRC offers a competitive package, designed to attract a candidate of the highest calibre. Relocation costs will be covered, if applicable. The HSRC is committed to furthering employment equity in its appointment practices. Applicants must submit a letter of motivation, CV, details of three referees with contact details (telephone and e-mail) and copies of three recent, sole or first-authored publications. The HSRC will only consider applications that comply with the above requirements. Shortlisted candidates will be invited to attend an interview on May 27 2020 and will be required to make an oral presentation to the HSRC community in the competencies required. Applications should be addressed to the secretary of council, and sent Fax applications will not be accepted. For further enquiries regarding the CEO position, please contact the secretary of council, Marizane Rousseau, by e-mail at mrousseau@hsrc.ac.za. Applications should be submitted by no later than April 30 2020. Applicants who have not been contacted within eight weeks should assume that their application was unsuccessful. Only candidates who are interviewed will be advised of the outcome of the interview. Applications from recruitment agencies will not be accepted. This article was paid for by the Human Sciences Research Council.