Eleven firms investigated for hiking prices during pandemic Eleven firms are under investigation for hiking their prices as the demand for products used to mitigate the spread of Covid-19 increases. “We have had complaints about individuals and firms increasing prices unjustifiably. The consumer and competition commissions met and are now investigating 11 firms found to be selling products like face masks and hand sanitisers for high prices and abusing the situation,” trade and industry minister Ebrahim Patel said on Tuesday. Government allocates R1.2bn to ensure food production Minister of agriculture, land reform and rural development Thoko Didiza on Tuesday announced a R1.2bn financial package to mitigate the threat Covid-19 poses to food production. “The department has set aside a package of R1.2bn to address the effects of coronavirus and ensure sustainable food production after the pandemic. The department will soon make the details of this package, with the application channels, available. The department has also availed R100m to the Land Bank to help farmers in distress,” Didiza said. The minister said exports and imports of critical agricultural commodities would continue unhindered, even during the 21-day lockdown. Netball SA president Cecilia Molokwane tests positive for Covid-19 Netball South Africa president Cecilia Molokwane has tested positive for Covid-19 after travelling abroad on 2023 World Cup business. “Molokwane had travelled to the United Kingdom for meetings with the International Netball Federation where she serves as a board member in March‚” NSA said. Molokwane was quoted in the NSA statement saying she had found out she had tested positive on Tuesday morning. Durban's Suncoast Casino temporarily shuts up shop ahead of 21-day lockdown Suncoast Casino in Durban has temporarily closed its gaming floors. Last week, the casino announced it had limited the number of patrons on its floors to 100, after government's declaration of a state of disaster. Political figures do their bit to tackle Covid-19 before lockdown Wash, avoid, cover, stay at home cadres, use hand sanitiser, perhaps even carry a baby on your back while in isolation. These are the messages being shared by some of the country's current and former political leaders as the nation counts down the days to the coronavirus lockdown. LISTEN | 'My world stopped for a second': Ndaba Mandela speaks about Covid-19 diagnosis Ndaba Mandela was at home in Johannesburg with friends when he received a call that shook him to the core: he had tested positive for Covid-19. The following day, Mandela went to get tested because he had returned from the US, which is officially listed as a high-risk country. This is who is exempt from national lockdown - and what will be closed President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a nationwide lockdown on Monday night. This step will see millions of South Africans restricted to their homes and many services being unavailable. But some people and businesses will be exempt, including: All shops and businesses will be closed, except for:  Comair to send staff home, suspend all flights during lockdown As the number of people infected with Covid-19 continues to rise, Comair has announced it will suspend its British Airways and kulula.com flights from Thursday. “We will resume with our scheduled flights on Sunday April 19 2020. Comair will try to  accommodate customers wanting to travel over the next two days, subject to availability and fare differences. We will not operate any flights on Thursday March 26,” the airline's  CEO Wrenelle Stander on Tuesday. Covid-19 is the odd reason everyone's Googling Disney's 'Tangled' right now Did Disney predict the coronavirus in their 2010 film Tangled? That's what some social media conspiracy theorists are saying after noticing similarities between the movie — which is based on the classic fairytale Rapunzel — and the current pandemic. 'Delete all traces of those Mabena comments': Mzansi responds to SANDF on streets President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday night announced a national lockdown for 21 days. He said the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) had been deployed to “support the SA Police Service in ensuring that the measures we are announcing are implemented.” Images of military staff around the country went viral ahead of Ramaphosa's speech. As the military becomes a common sight to many, Twitter has been filled with anecdotes and advice for South Africans. SA's Covid-19 cases rise to 554 The number of Covid-19 cases has risen to 554, health minister Zweli Mkhize announced on Tuesday. Mkhize announced the department had recorded 152 new Covid-19 cases. If Covid-19 cancels your wedding, you should get a full refund We should be heading into South Africa’s second biggest wedding season, but for many of the thousands of engaged couples who’ve been forced to cancel their big day, the traditional vows are already being put to the test. The cost of a cancelled wedding - especially very shortly before those “I do’s” are said - is catastrophic for the couple and their guests, as well as all the wedding vendors. Legally, given the ban on public gatherings or more than 100 - which is very likely to drop to far less, very soon - consumers have a right to full refunds of what they’ve paid. Even indoors and at home, self-isolating is hard work Social distancing and self-isolation became de rigeur after President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement of a national state of disaster this week. But many are having a tough time of it. Tiffany Gore, 30, a hotel guest relations manager, travelled to London on holiday earlier this month and has had to isolate herself after coming home from a high-risk area. “It has been quite a challenge because I still live at home and my father is high-risk because he has prostate cancer and has recently gone for treatment,” she said.