Many people initially thought the new coronavirus couldn't be that bad. But now it is everywhere, it is serious and it isn't just going to blow over. Getting the correct information and sifting through the fake news about Sars-CoV-2 (the virus) and Covid-19 (the illness) is a tough job. What do we do now? How bad is it? Are we getting a vaccine? And if so, when? Can it be treated? Is there good news? In this week's edition of Afrikaans digital weekly Vrye Weekblad we try to answer as many questions as possible about the virus and the disease in general, and the South African situation in particular, as we can. For many of these questions, the answer is unfortunately that we just don't know. We are not sure why some people show no symptoms, or why there have been so few confirmed cases in Africa compared to Europe. But here is something we do know, according to an expert from Stellenbosch University's medical faculty. We have two advantages in SA:  President Cyril Ramaphosa acted earlier in the course of the outbreak than most other countries; and our outbreak is behind these other countries by a few weeks so we can see how they cope, what measures work and adjust ours accordingly. How long it will take and whatever other drastic measures need to be taken, no-one knows, the world has never been in such a situation before! HERO! | The levels of corruption at Prasa were horrific, but it would have been much worse if Martha Ngoye wasn't there. LET'S TALK ABOUT TREVOR | “Kaantie Trevor, this kak don’t sit well with me.” With these words a Twitter storm broke out about a reference to coloured people in Trevor Noah's 2016-memoires, Born a Crime. Michael Weeder, Dean of St George's Cathedral in Cape Town, wants to talk to Trevor about it. YOUR DATA ISN'T YOURS | You open an app, create a profile and suddenly it seems Google is reading your mind. Your data is a precious commodity to businesses. ROYAL ABUSE | Why are taxpayers footing the bill for the lifestyle of unelected, undemocratic SA royalty? A CAP ON CAPITALISM? | The liberal capitalism we have known since 1991 will most likely look much different in two or three decades.