Nigeria reports first coronavirus death Nigeria on Monday reported its first death from coronavirus as confirmed cases of infections in Africa's most populous nation climbed further. "The case was a 67-year-old male who returned home following medical treatment in UK. He had underlying medical conditions - multiple myeloma & diabetes & was undergoing chemotherapy," the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control wrote on Twitter. Nyaniso Dzedze turns to law after his wife is detained at OR Tambo Actor Nyaniso Dzedze has turned to social media and the law in a desperate attempt to get his English-German wife, Yana Seidl, released from "detention" at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg. Yana and Nyaniso were returning to the country from Rwanda in the wake of travel bans announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa in an attempt to curb the spread of Covid-19. Eastern Cape health department 'baffled' at how tourist was allowed to travel The Eastern Cape government is implementing stringent measures to prevent tourists spreading coronavirus in the province. This comes after a German tourist, who is part of a tour group at Chintsa's Crawford's Beach Lodge, tested positive for the virus. The provincial health department is “baffled” at how the tourist was allowed to travel, as he had reported symptoms in KwaZulu-Natal. SA star Dino Ndlovu returns to China: 'I’ve arrived safely and on a 14-day quarantine period' South African international Dino Ndlovu has voiced his satisfaction with how China has managed to contain the coronavirus after arriving back at his Hangzhou-based club at the weekend. The China-based Ndlovu told TimesLIVE from his Hangzhou home that life is slowly returning to normal in the East Asia country to such an extent that he would start training with his team on April 3. KZN education department takes matric classes to the airwaves The KwaZulu-Natal education department will take matric lessons to the airwaves from Monday. Most radio stations in the province, including Ukhozi FM, Vuma FM, East Coast Radio and Gagasi, are scheduled to hold lessons between Monday and Friday in different time slots. Some stations will extend lessons to the weekends. MEC slams operators after foreign tourists test positive for Covid-19 KwaZulu-Natal MEC for health Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu has slammed tour operators in St Lucia, in northern KwaZulu-Natal, for welcoming tourists from high-risk areas. This after two Germans were found to be mingling with a group of 10 South Africans on a boat on St Lucia's estuary after testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Strict measures taken by world leaders in five countries World leaders have implemented strict measures in their countries to halt the spread of Covid-19. The measures include enforcing staying at home, travel bans, school closures and prohibitions on gatherings. Here are some of the measures taken by world leaders in Austria, Germany, Italy, the US and SA. Will it come back? Experts weigh in on aftermath of Covid-19 The Covid-19 tidal wave seems to have already subsided in China, where the novel coronavirus first broke out late last year: over recent days no new local cases have been recorded. But French public health specialist and epidemiologist Antoine Flahault in the Lancet medical journal wonders if the worse is not yet to come. China could so far have "experienced a herald wave, to use terminology borrowed from those who study tsunamis, and is the big wave still to come?" he wrote. #Quarantinebookclub: Here's a list of must-reads to add to your collection Whether social distancing, self-isolating or under quarantine in the wake of Covid-19, millions around the world are speaking out about being stuck at home. When Netflix and the fridge weren't good options any more, people turned to social media to share their lists of must-read books. Returning Rhodes University student in isolation after allegedly being allowed to go home A Rhodes University student, who was allegedly allowed to go to his private residence after arriving at Johannesburg's OR Tambo International Airport from the US, has been isolated, the institution said. In a statement issued by the university, the student arrived at the airport on Thursday. He was allegedly allowed to go to Makhanda instead of being taken to the mandatory quarantine site for all arrivals. President Ramaphosa will address the country on Monday night President Cyril Ramaphosa is set to address the nation on Monday evening. The time will be confirmed during the day, minister in the presidency Jackson Mthembu said. His brief statement read: “President Cyril Ramaphosa will address the nation this evening on the coronavirus pandemic. At that stage the President would have finalised measures to be undertaken to mitigate the impact of the virus on our people and the economy.” WATCH | Business as usual at Johannesburg's potential Covid-19 hotspots SA Olympic champ warns athletes after catching Covid-19 SA's former Olympic champion Cameron van der Burgh has spoken out about the debilitating effects of Covid-19 after contracting the disease recently, warning the lack of clarification about the Tokyo Games was putting athletes at increased risk as they persevered trying to train. “I have been struggling with Covid-19 for 14 days today,” the 100m breaststroke gold medallist from London 2012 wrote on Twitter on Sunday night. “By far the worst virus I have ever endured despite being a healthy individual with strong lungs (no smoking/sport), living a healthy lifestyle and being young (least at risk demographic). Convicted rapist Harvey Weinstein tests positive for Covid-19 Disgraced Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein has tested positive for the novel coronavirus, US media reported on Sunday. Weinstein is in prison in New York state after being sentenced to 23 years in jail for rape and sexual assault. The fallen film producer's diagnosis was first reported on Sunday evening by local paper the Niagara Gazette. Zodwa Wabantu uses coronavirus social distancing to focus on her romance Many South Africans have found it challenging to adjust to social distancing amid the coronavirus outbreak, but Zodwa Wabantu has chosen to use the "free time" to spend quality moments with her loved ones. The entertainer said this time out has given her a chance to really get to know the other sides of who she is. Canada pulls out of 2020 Olympic Games Canada became the first country to boycott the Tokyo Games due to the coronavirus pandemic and Australia told its athletes to prepare for an Olympics next year, as Japan and the IOC flagged the prospect of a postponement for the first time. Opposition to holding the Games in July has risen sharply in the past 48 hours, with several major stakeholders, such as US Track and Field and UK Athletics, with some national Olympic committees, calling for a delay because of the pandemic. Standard Bank offers zero percent interest with student loan 'holiday' Everyone studying full time with a Standard Bank student loan will receive a three-month payment holiday at 0% interest and with zero fees. This was announced by Standard Bank on Sunday as part of its Covid-19 financial relief measures for customers. The payment relief is also being extended to the bank’s small enterprise customers with turnover of less than R20m. The relief measures will commence on April 1 and run through to the end June.