Returned books will be “quarantined” before they find their place back on shelves in Durban libraries. One of the new rules for libraries is that all returned books must be placed in a quarantine room for 72 hours before they can be issued to borrowers. eThekwini municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said most of the city’s 95 libraries had reopened. The Durban City Hall library remained closed for refurbishment. The Heart and Stroke Foundation SA (HSFSA) is concerned that South Africans suffering from cardiovascular diseases are not getting the medical treatment they require because they fear contracting Covid-19. HSFSA head Prof Pamela Naidoo told TimesLIVE on World Heart Day on Tuesday: “This is alarming because high-risk patients should always ensure they adhere to their medical treatment plan to avoid fatal consequences.” According to the foundation, about 225 South Africans die from heart disease, strokes and other circulatory diseases every day. While SA's Covid-19 recovery rate continues to see a steady increase and Health minister Zweli Mkhize has reassured the public that we are "now past the surge", the rising number of cases in the Free State and Gauteng have sparked concern. WHO is worried According to the SABC, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has expressed concern after an increase in Covid-19 cases in SA over the past week. The increase in the number of confirmed cases comes after the country entered level 1 of the lockdown last Monday. The increase also comes amid reports that the continent has experienced an overall decrease in infections. The global death toll from Covid-19 rose past 1 million on Tuesday, according to a Reuters tally, a bleak milestone in a pandemic that has devastated the global economy, overloaded health systems and changed the way people live. The number of deaths from the novel coronavirus this year is now double the number of people who die annually from malaria — and the death rate has increased in recent weeks as infections surge in several countries. “Our world has reached an agonising milestone,” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said in a statement. —Reuters Active Covid-19 cases have shot up by 6% in Gauteng since the lockdown regulations were dropped to level 1, an increase “noted with concern” by the provincial health department. “There is still no vaccine, the only way we can contain the spread of Covid-19 is through wearing of masks, keeping social distance and hand sanitisation, including adhering to the alert level 1 guidelines as provided by government,” said acting health MEC Jacob Mamabolo. “The rise in infections has been attributed to, among other factors, non-adherence to non-pharmaceutical interventions by some members of the public,” read a statement from his office. As SA prepares for the reopening of international borders, tourism minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane has vowed that the country will open to “most countries” this week. Speaking during an event on Monday to commemorate the last few days of Tourism Month, Kubayi-Ngubane said the cabinet’s decision to open the country’s borders to most countries was a significant milestone in placing the sector on an "irreversible path" to full recovery. Restrictions on international travel for business, leisure and other travel will take effect from October 1. Travellers will be allowed to travel into and out of SA from countries deemed to carry less of a risk for Covid-19. The Gauteng government has assured people on Gauteng's West Rand that the AngloGold Ashanti Hospital, donated by the mining company as part of the response to Covid-19, will permanently contribute to the provision of quality health care in the area. This follows after acting health MEC Jacob Mamabolo completed a preliminary audit of Covid-19 health structures that Gauteng remains committed to investing in legacy projects beyond the Covid-19 pandemic through major refurbishments and additional beds at existing hospitals. “The fund will be used to provide rapid and targeted actions to support the health-care sector in efforts to flatten the curve of infections and provide humanitarian support to vulnerable households and communities,” said AngloGold Ashanti.