September 29 marks World Heart Day when the global spotlight falls on all things relating to heart health. One often overlooked, yet very common heart condition, is angina, a type of chest pain caused by reduced blood flow to the heart, and a warning sign that something may be wrong. However, over the last decade, angina has changed its face with many patients suffering atypical angina, resulting in frequent under-recognition by doctors and putting an increased burden on society. Join the Sunday Times Connect digital discussion in a conversation about heart health, moderated by Joanne Joseph. The panel includes cardiologists Dr David Jankelow and Dr Martin Tawanda Butau who will share practical advice on all matters of the heart, including understanding the symptoms, triggers and treatment of angina, as well as the importance of living a healthy lifestyle. Date: September 29 2020Time: 1pm – 2pm  What does angina feel like? Angina is an uncomfortable feeling that may include tightness, heaviness or pain in your chest, which may spread to your arms, neck, jaw, shoulders, back or stomach. People sometimes describe the feeling as a dull ache. The symptoms are not the same for everyone. Some people feel the pain or tightness only in their arm, neck, stomach or jaw. For others the pain or tightness is severe, while there are those who may feel nothing more than a mild discomfort or pressure. You might experience angina on a cold day, or if you’re walking after a meal. Being terribly upset can sometimes trigger an angina episode, or you may get angina if you’re exerting yourself – for example, during exercise. Other symptoms of angina may include dizziness, fatigue, nausea, shortness of breath, and sweating. The symptoms of angina usually fade after a few minutes’ rest, or after taking medication that your doctor may have prescribed. Although angina is relatively common, it can still be difficult to distinguish from other types of chest pain, such as the discomfort of indigestion. If you have unexplained chest pain, it’s advisable to seek medical attention right away. The symptoms need to be evaluated immediately by a doctor who can determine whether you have stable angina, or unstable angina, which can be a precursor to a heart attack.3c Stable angina You may have angina that comes on with a particular amount of activity, but resolves quickly with rest, is well controlled with medicines, and doesn’t become more frequent or more severe. This is known as stable angina. Characteristics of stable angina Unstable angina Unstable angina is when you have symptoms that you have developed for the first time, or angina which was previously stable but has recently got worse or changed in pattern. For example, your angina symptoms may come on after doing much less activity or with less stress than usual, and may even come on while you are resting. Characteristics of unstable angina (a medical emergency) What causes angina? The most common cause of angina is coronary heart disease. There are certain things about your lifestyle or family history that mean you may be more likely to get coronary heart disease. These are known as risk factors. You are more likely to get coronary heart disease if you: Preventing angina You can help prevent angina by making the same lifestyle changes that might improve your symptoms if you already have angina. These include: If you are diagnosed with angina, taking the antianginal medicines you’ve been prescribed by your doctor and making lifestyle changes including eating a healthy diet, and losing weight if you’re overweight will all help you to lead a normal, symptom-free, healthy life, and to prevent the occurrence of an event such as a heart attack. This World Heart Day, what’s most important is to learn the language of your heart. Talk about your symptoms with your doctor, even if it seems unimportant. Sharing your concerns and communicating openly can help you both make smart choices about your health. #LetsGetAnginaUnderControl #Servier #SAHeartforyou #WorldHeartDay