Unilever, which supplies TRESemmé products in SA, and the EFF on Thursday reached mutual ground on the future of the hair-care brand. While large retailers such as Shoprite Checkers, Pick n Pay and Clicks had agreed to pull TRESemmé products from their shelves  after an alleged racist advertisement by the brand, Unilever and the EFF have agreed that these products  can be put back on  shelves in 10 days' time. In a joint statement, issued after a meeting between the  two, they said they  had reached an agreement on the following: Among the list of demands from the EFF to Unilever was that it supply the names of their employees who were behind the ad. Unilever told the EFF it could not give in to this demand. “We could not find each other on the publishing of the names of the people responsible for the racist image,” the joint statement from the two parties said. “Moreover, the director involved in the campaign has since left the company and the country,” the statement revealed. The company would take action against the remaining employees. The TRESemmé advert was published by Clicks on its website last week. It showed four images: two of black women’s hair described as being “frizzy and dull” and “dry and damaged”, against two images of a white woman's hair, described as “fine and flat” and then as “normal”. The ad caused outrage with the EFF taking  action against  beauty and health  retailer.  The company explained the ad was not  its own, apologised for publishing the images and said it was an oversight on  its part. It  suspended  the  staff who put the ad on  its website. The EFF, however, did not retreat and embarked on protest action against Clicks, calling for it to cut all ties with Unilever. The party said the advert had racist undertones and called for those who approved it to be fired. It disrupted operations at several Clicks stores around the country. A number of Clicks stores were damaged in the unrest. Clicks had to obtain a court interdict to bar EFF protesters from intimidating  its staff and customers and also from damaging  its property. It  suspended operations at all its outlets on Wednesday. The EFF has also started talks with Clicks representatives. TimesLIVE