Zimbabwe will gradually re-open primary and secondary schools from Oct. 26 for all pupils, ending a break of seven months that was precipitated by the coronavirus outbreak, the information minister said on Tuesday. The government had earlier this month said only students who are taking their final examinations would return to school. Canada's vow to double down on pandemic-related spending to keep the economic recovery under way in the face of a second wave of Covid-19 infections will support activity but raises questions over the burgeoning deficit, economists say. The Liberal government on Wednesday made sweeping promises of major new investments and policy initiatives saying "this is not the time for austerity", while giving few details on how those plans would be financed and at what cost. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has faith in his top medical adviser, health minister Matt Hancock said on Thursday, after reports said the government had sought advice on the Covid-19 pandemic elsewhere. Hancock was asked about a report that Johnson had asked Sweden's top epidemiologist for advice, and whether Johnson had lost faith in England's Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty. King Goodwill Zwelithini has urged politicians to unite in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and gender-based violence, or face the wrath of their ancestors. The Zulu king was speaking at Umkhosi we Lembe — the annual commemoration of the day King Shaka was killed — hosted at the eNyokeni royal house in northern KwaZulu-Natal on Thursday. The king urged opposition political parties to work together against the pandemic and its effects on the economy. Before the Covid-19 enforced lockdown‚ Curwin Bosch was the country’s form flyhalf in the country’s best Super Rugby outfit. That was more than six months ago and the rugby landscape couldn’t be more different right now. Firstly‚ the Bulls have a different coach from the last time the sides met on January 31. Under fire from passengers for being lax about passengers not conforming to mask wearing regulations on board their flights, Flysafair this week imposed a new zero tolerance policy — including issuing “yellow cards” to transgressors. “The cabin crew are not enforcing the wearing of masks during the flight,” complained Sue Lovett, of Sandton, earlier this week. The local distributors of a herbal remedy have been ordered to stop claiming it can prevent or cure Covid-19. The advertising watchdog said on Wednesday that SA Natural Products had failed to submit “unequivocal verification of efficacy” for Echinaforce. This was “markedly different” to the overall tone of a paid-for interview on Radio Sonder Grense (RSG) with marketing manager Estie Schreiber on August 27. "The technology we rely on to keep connected and informed is enabling and amplifying an infodemic that continues to undermine the global response and jeopardises measures to control the pandemic."