In a moving tribute to slain Eldorado Park teen Nateniël Julies, his sister Petunia delivered a rendition of Hillsong’s Still as the community gathered to remember the boy. As Petunia sang, her mother Bridget Harris sat and clutched a tissue in her hand as she wept. The community had gathered in the parking lot of the flat complex where Julies, 16, and who suffered with Down syndrome, was shot and killed on Wednesday last week. Julies was allegedly gunned down while holding only a packet of biscuits while he danced to the pulsating blue lights cast across Hillbrow Flats by the police van. “I want to thank the community for being there with my brother and for being there for my family,” said Petunia Julies. The teen’s death sparked violent protests that left several people injured and the suburb was locked down for two days. Eyewitnesses told of how Julies was taken by the flashing blue lights of the police van before a single shot rang out. Cops were seen hurriedly carrying his body to their vehicle before throwing him in the back. He was purportedly taken to Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, where he was later declared dead. Church leaders, also speaking at the vigil, called for Nateniël's life to be celebrated. This, they said, should be done by cleaning up the community and ridding it of elements of crime. “Our greatest desire is now to live in peace,” Bishop Marcus Jacobs said. “To the police, have compassion for our people. Serve our people. Nateniël wanted to be served but you shot him,” he said. He called for the return of law and order, with the Eldorado Park police station commander put on notice to “clean up the rotten apples”. “Stop killing us. Nateniël sent out a loud message throughout the nation. Give the children of Eldorado Park a chance to live again … The moment they killed him, he stepped into eternal life,” Jacobs said. Earlier in the day, Eldorado Park detective Vorster Netshiongolo appeared in the Protea magistrate’s court facing charges of defeating the ends of justice, possession of prohibited ammunition and accessory to murder after the fact. His arrest followed several days after two other officers, Scorpion Simon Ndyalvane, 46, and Caylene Whiteboy, 26, appeared in the same court. They were charged with murder, possession of prohibited ammunition, defeating the ends of justice and discharging a firearm in public. The trio was remanded in custody and will appear together on September 10, when they are expected to bring applications to be released on bail. TimesLIVE