Eastern Cape health bosses are  concerned about a second wave of Covid-19 infections spreading into the  province, predominantly from the Free State. Their fears stem from an  outbreak of  infections at schools in areas bordering the Free State, with health MEC Sindiswa Gomba on Tuesday describing  the new wave  as “fires that are spreading fast”. She said  cases were increasing in Aliwal North, possibly as a result of people who shop and live  in the town  but  work in a Free State prison, Goedermoed. Gomba said they were also concerned about a spike in new cases  around Burgersdorp, Middelburg, Cradock and Sterkspruit. The provincial government, Gomba revealed during a media briefing in Bhisho on Tuesday, is making arrangements with its counterparts in the Free State,  for Eastern Cape officials “to test the whole prison population as this is going to affect us more than the Free State”. Last week it was reported that the provincial department of education  sent a team to help  the community around Ethembeni Secondary School  in Burgersdorp, where 102 schoolchildren had tested positive for Covid-19, putting more than 500 pupils  and teachers in  quarantine. Gomba on Tuesday said while she was pleased  that all the 102 pupils  in that school had   recovered, she  was  concerned that the virus had now found its way to other  schools in the area. She said  cases had arisen in four more schools in Burgersdorp, while in nearby Middelburg,  192 active cases were recorded in their schools, with two people having died from  the virus. “In a Cradock school, we have one positive teacher and testing of pupils and teachers is under way. “There are further  cases in three other schools  in Aliwal North and in Sterkspruit at one school and these fires are spreading really fast. “We have also reported that 26 pupils and 25 community members in Middelburg have tested positive. We are happy to announce that all these pupils have recovered, but sadly we have lost an educator and a community member who both succumbed to the pandemic,” Gomba said. The provincial government on Tuesday used its weekly Covid-19  media briefing to  unpack work being done by various  departments to fight  poverty. The briefing was also attended by social development MEC Siphokazi Mani-Lusithi, rural development and agrarian reform MEC Nomakhosazana Meth and human settlements MEC Nonkqubela Pieters. The anti-poverty programmes  include food security, fighting malnutrition, provision of human settlements support and provision of social relief of distress programmes. DispatchLIVE