Western Cape now has fewer than 2,500 active Covid-19 cases The number of active cases of Covid-19 in the Western Cape slipped below 2,500 on Thursday. At the height of the provincial outbreak, at the beginning of July, there were more than 17,600 active cases and nearly 1,900 people in hospital. These figures were down to 2,492 and just over 600 on Thursday, meaning active infections in the province stand at 35.3 per 100,000 people. Johnson & Johnson on Wednesday started a final 60,000-person trial of a single-shot Covid-19 vaccine that potentially would simplify distribution of millions of doses compared with leading rivals using two doses. The company expects results of the phase 3 trial by year end or early next year, Dr Paul Stoffels, J&J's chief scientific officer, said in a joint press conference with officials from the National Institutes of Health and the Trump administration. Rival vaccines from Moderna Inc, Pfizer Inc and AstraZeneca all require two shots separated by several weeks, which make them more difficult to administer. —Reuters As the ANC in Gauteng mulls over the fate of provincial health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku, his department has lauded stakeholders who have donated more than R322m in personal protective equipment (PPE). Acting health MEC Jacob Mamabolo, in a statement, lauded the role played by many stakeholders who made various types of donations that ensured the province was able to cope at the height of the Covid-19 infections. “We are going home.” Those were the elated words of 91-year-old Neville Adams when he and his 90-year-old wife Iris were discharged from the Netcare N1 City Hospital in Cape Town recently after they both survived Covid-19. They were  admitted on August 16 and 21 respectively, with neither aware at first that they were a room away from each other. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula says the list of countries South Africans can travel to once international borders are open will be based on a “differentiated approach”. The new restrictions on international travel for business, leisure and other travel with take effect from October 1. Travellers will be allowed to travel into and out of SA from countries deemed less “high risk” for Covid-19. There is no need for shoppers to panic buy grocery supplies after Britain imposed new restrictions to stem a second wave of Covid-19, the boss of Tesco, the country's biggest supermarket chain, said on Wednesday. Prime Minister Boris Johnson told the British people on Tuesday to work from home where possible and ordered restaurants and bars to close early to tackle a spike in the pandemic, with new restrictions probably lasting six months. That prompted speculation about whether there could be panic buying of groceries similar to that which stripped supermarket shelves in March and led to the rationing of certain items. Jerusalema hitmaker Nomcebo Zikode's recent show at a News Cafe in Limpopo has sparked controversy and an investigation by the company after claims it broke Covid-19 lockdown rules and put lives at risk. In a video recently posted by Nomcebo on Twitter, the star could be seen performing in the crowded venue. At one point Nomcebo could be seen leading a sing along, encouraging audience members to sing into her microphone. She was flanked by dancers who pressed up against her while she was performing. Social media law expert Emma Sadleir has allayed fears over privacy concerns related to the government's Covid Alert SA app. The app, which is part of the health department's digital Covid-19 response platform, works via Bluetooth by sending exposure notifications to users if they have been in close contact with another app user who tested positive for the coronavirus. According to details available on the app, it is built on Apple and Google’s exposure notification framework and “has been designed to protect your identity and security”. Sadleir said she has analysed the app and has no concerns. Police minister Bheki Cele has clamped down on alcohol sales on Heritage Day, and issued a stern warning to licensed premises regarding selling alcohol as takeaways. Speaking during a media briefing on Tuesday, Cele said no off-site sales of alcohol will be permitted on Thursday. He warned that licensed premises, such as restaurants and bars, which offer patrons takeaway alcohol will be punished as this is illegal. European airlines are pinning hopes on preflight Covid-19 tests that deliver results as fast as pregnancy tests to help restore passengers' confidence in taking to the skies in confined spaces with shared air. Germany's Lufthansa, at the mercy of government bailouts for survival, is in talks with Swiss drugmaker Roche over deploying so-called antigen tests, according to two people familiar with the discussions, as the airline aims to make them available next month. Italian operator Alitalia, meanwhile, said that from Wednesday it would add two flights from Milan to Rome, to the two it is already offering from Rome to Milan, exclusively for passengers with negative tests. Police minister Bheki Cele expressed concern about liquor outlets which violate lockdown regulations by hosting illegal gatherings and operating beyond 10pm. He said the department has also been inundated with complaints and reports about gender-based violence (GBV) and human trafficking.