Virgin Active SA has caused a buzz with its statement regarding wearing a face mask in their gyms. According to the health club chain, a mask is no longer compulsory when doing “vigorous” activity. “Government has released new regulations covering the use of masks in the club. The use of masks is no longer compulsory when members are undertaking a vigorous activity, provided that they maintain a 2m distance from other people,” read the post. Inmates serving time, students funded by the National Student Financial Aid Scheme and deceased people were among those who were fraudulently paid by the Unemployment Insurance Fund Covid-19 relief fund. Labour and employment minister Thulas Nxesi said this on Wednesday when he announced that the entire senior leadership of the fund, including its commissioner, CFO and COO, had been suspended. The suspensions follow the release of the auditor-general's audit findings, which found serious risks and violations in the payments of the temporary relief funds. The Temporary Employee/Employer Relief Scheme (TERS) was set up to assist workers affected by reduced work time and salaries due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. The wine industry has no doubt been one of the businesses worst hit by the lockdown, but a new digital platform that is aimed at promoting the country’s wine exports globally, brings a glimmer of hope to this battered sector. The Cape Export Network, a brainchild of Wesgro and Wines of SA, which is soon to be introduced in the country, will help wine buyers and importers who have an interest in local wine to safely select wine of their choice using criteria that include wine type, tasting notes as well as the region where the wine has been produced. Based on their selection, the platform will present wines listed that meet these criteria. The wine industry, which stopped trading twice during the lockdown after the ban on alcohol sales, was brought to its knees with many people having lost their jobs as businesses struggled to make ends meet. It is estimated that the wine industry lost R200m a week on exports during the five weeks of no exports and R300m in local sales per week, More than 100,000 jobs were lost. National Assembly speaker Thandi Modise says an application by the Helen Suzman Foundation to force the government to pass “special” legislation to manage Covid-19 is “ill conceived”, “unwarranted” and “inappropriate”. The Helen Suzman Foundation has gone to court to seek an order declaring that the government has failed to fulfil its constitutional obligation to initiate and pass laws to regulate its response to the threat and harm caused by Covid-19. Modise, President Cyril Ramaphosa and his cabinet, and co-operative governance and traditional affairs minister Nkosozana Dlamini-Zuma are cited as respondents. The train, which brings free health-care to the doorsteps of vulnerable communities, had previously travelled to every province in SA except Gauteng. A man sentenced to 25 years in jail for money laundering has failed in his bid to be released on parole as part of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s proclamation to release offenders to ease overcrowding in prisons during the Covid-19 lockdown. Almost six months after SA's first coronavirus case, the department of health has officially launched a Covid-19 contact tracing app. Limpopo school says at least 40 learners need scholar transport to collect meals