The Western Cape wants to amend the province's liquor act to halve the number of murders  in the province  in the next 10 years. This is according to the Western Cape’s minister of community safety Albert Fritz, who said his department has been tasked to come up with a plan to reduce violence and murder in the province. Fritz said the liquor act amendment is aligned with premier Alan Winde’s “Smart Interventions” aimed at reducing alcohol-related harms. “During the lockdown, my department monitored the number of homicides, which demonstrated that at the beginning of the lockdown, the murder rate had been halved. However, as we moved into alert levels 4 and 3, the murder figures increased but then again slightly decreased as the ban on alcohol and the curfew was reinstituted,” said Fritz. He said these are not sustainable interventions, as they have a major affect on the economy and contribute to unemployment in vulnerable communities. “That is why I agree with premier Winde that it is necessary that the unbanning of alcohol be accompanied with smart interventions, such as the proposed amendments, which aim to reduce alcohol-related harms,” he said. According to Fritz, the key proposed amendments for altering the Western Cape Liquor Authority (WLCA) regulations include the following: Fritz said the  proposed amendments further sought to enable unlicensed outlets to become licensed, and adhere to regulations such as zoning and trading hours. “As per the legislative process, the proposed amendments will be put forward to the provincial cabinet  which will scrutinise and debate the contents. Thereafter, it will be prepared by legal services and be published in the Provincial Gazette for public input for  21 days,” he said. The amendment  comes after the Southern Africa Alcohol Policy Alliance (Saapa) called for the draft liquor amendment bill to be fast-tracked, along with the zero limit for drink driving. Times Select reported that Saapa director Maurice Smithers said: “Government themselves acknowledge that there is an issue with the way alcohol is consumed, and it is now critical. We are baffled as to why they don’t take the tools they already have and deal with this problem.” If signed into law, the draft liquor bill that was first published in 2016 will see the legal drinking age raised to 21. It will also ban all alcohol sales and advertising on public platforms.