Health minister Zweli Mkhize has warned of a possible Covid-19 resurgence as the country moves to lockdown level 1. The warning comes as the number of cumulative infections sit at 661,221, while the death total reached 15,953 at the weekend. Mkhize said the country had not yet been cleared of the coronavirus despite moving to level 1. The Health Professions Council of SA (HPCSA) has written to President Cyril Ramaphosa about the criminal case against Dr Peter Beale and Dr Abdulhay Munshi,  who was shot dead last week. The pair were charged with culpable homicide after the death of a prominent businessman's 10-year-old son following a laparoscopic operation to stop reflux last year. On Monday SA woke up to the last level of its lockdown. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced last week that the country would move to level 1 from midnight on Sunday. Under level 1, all sectors will be allowed to trade and the curfew is between midnight and 4am daily. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is pondering a second national Covid-19 lockdown as the novel coronavirus outbreak accelerates. New Covid-19 cases are rising by at least 6,000 per day in Britain, according to week old data, hospital admissions are doubling every eight days and the testing system is buckling. The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation is taking a stand against Covid-19 corruption and has urged SA to show solidarity by wearing orange face masks on Friday. Monday marks the beginning of alert level 1 for SA after months of hard lockdown. With the economy slowly opening up, the ban on international travel has finally been lifted, among other things. The post office retirement fund has failed in its court bid to force the SA Post Office (Sapo) to continue making contributions to the fund despite the tough financial situation the postal agency finds itself in due to Covid-19. Last week the high court in Pretoria dismissed the fund's case with costs. In her judgment, Judge Elizabeth Kubushi said the economic downturn resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic was of a magnitude that no-one could have predicted. Thirteen more fatalities related to Covid-19 were recorded on Sunday, bringing the death toll related to the pandemic to 15,953, the health ministry said. The Western Cape accounted for six of the deaths, followed by Gauteng and the Eastern Cape, which each recorded three. KwaZulu-Natal recorded one fatality. Law enforcement officials in East Java, Indonesia, have introduced grave digging as one of the punishments applied to those who break Covid-19 health protocols.