Wendy Nelson, a strong ally of former North West premier Supra Mahumapelo, was this week snubbed by the ANC for a legislature job. Nelson, who Mahumapelo appointed to act as premier in 2018, was next on the list to occupy the vacant ANC spot in the North West legislature. The spot was left open after the death of cooperative governance, human settlement and traditional affairs MEC Gordon Kegakilwe in July. However, the ANC asked Nelson to step aside as she is facing charges relating to the appointment of a senior official in the province's health department. She is currently out on bail. As she was next on the list, Nelson was expected to make a return to the cushy job of a member of the provincial legislature - but her comeback was dealt a blow by the ANC national executive committee's decision to ask its members who are facing serious charges to step aside from positions of responsibility. Nelson is a former finance MEC under Mahumapelo, whose reign which ended after widespread protests in the province. In 2018, Mahumapelo took leave from his position and appointed Nelson to act as premier. But her stint was short-lived after the ANC decided to appoint Job Mokgoro into the position. The party in the province has now opted to instead swear in former Mahikeng mayor Lena Miga to occupy the legislature seat. Interim provincial committee (IPC) coordinator in the North West, Hlomani Chauke, confirmed the decision of the party, saying it was informed by the NEC resolution to ask accused members to step aside. He said Nelson had also been asked to step aside from her responsibilities in the IPC. “We have communicated, we have met with her and spoken to her about the position of the structure. We have communicated the decision of the NEC with regards to those comrades who are appearing at court with fraud, corruption and serious cases. She is one of them, and we have communicated with her,” said Chauke. He said Nelson has since been bumped down the list to number two of those who are in line to fill in the next vacant ANC position. “She is fine with that and she has never said anything after that. There is no problem,” said Chauke. He said the ANC position that those facing serious cases should step aside was clear and that Nelson would get a chance after she had cleared her name. Nelson declined to comment on the matter, saying it was an internal ANC issue and that her court case was sub judice. TimesLIVE