The Woolworths store in Ballito Junction on the KwaZulu-Natal north coast has closed after a staff member tested positive for Covid-19. "On Friday, 24th April, we were advised that a team member from our Ballito Junction store had tested positive for the Covid-19 virus and is now recovering at home in isolation." Parents, pupils, teachers and education stakeholders will have to wait a little longer to hear when schooling will resume. Monday's much-anticipated address by basic education minister Angie Motshekga has been postponed to later this week. Basic education department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said the postponement “was necessitated by the need to align with other interventions that are to be taken by the National Command Council later this week”. While many other cities across SA will downgrade to level four on Friday, there is a good chance that eThekwini will not. KwaZulu-Natal's economic hub has been deemed the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic in the province with 579 positive cases. KZN premier Sihle Zikalala gave a provincial breakdown of the cases on Sunday during a media briefing. More than 200 medical health specialists from Cuba have arrived in SA to bolster efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19. The group consists of experts in epidemiology, biostatistics, and public health, family physicians, health care technology engineers and experts to provide technical assistance. “Cuba is known for its disaster preparedness and its consistent deployment of medical brigades for disaster relief wherever required,” health minister Zweli Mkhize said in a statement on Sunday. A taxi driver who told police at a roadblock that fearful passengers had abandoned the vehicle, leaving behind their luggage, was arrested when police found an illegal firearm in one of the bags. Police minister Bheki Cele, accompanied by Gauteng community safety MEC Faith Mazibuko, provincial police commissioner Lt-Gen Elias Mawela, Tshwane metro police chief Johanna Nkomo, and other law enforcement agencies carried out several roadblocks on Saturday evening in Gauteng. A total of 97 suspects were arrested for various contraventions of the Covid-19 lockdown regulations.