Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa) secretary-general Zolani Mkiva has confirmed that the institution's national executive committee (NEC), led by its president, Kgosi Mathupa Mokoena, has decided to suspend the winter initiation season. Speaking to DispatchLIVE in Nqadu, Willowvale, in the Eastern Cape, during health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize's visit on Tuesday, Mkiva described 2020 as an unusual year not only for South Africans but for the whole world because of the Covid-19 pandemic. SA has to find a way to exit the hard lockdown as a matter of urgency because a continuation would amount to “unsustainable madness”. This is the view expressed by economist Mike Schussler when he addressed a virtual briefing hosted by the Institute of Race Relations about the economic impact of Covid-19. He said extending a hard lockdown — which began on March 27 and is expected to last until the end of April — would see more South Africans pushed into poverty. Glen Grey Provincial Hospital nurses have refused to help coronavirus patients who were rushed from Cala to the hospital in Cacadu at the weekend. A video sent by nurses to DispatchLIVE shows staff standing outside the hospital building in a show of defiance. The nurses said they will not treat the infected patients until they receive personal protection equipment (PPE). If you're having withdrawal symptoms caused by the shortage of alcohol due to the booze ban, don't worry - you're not alone. Even our lawmakers are struggling to control their thirst. ANC MP Robert Mashego could not hold himself on Tuesday and complained that the background of his colleague Enock Mthethwa was making him “thirsty” during a virtual portfolio committee meeting. Social media users have saluted and praised a police officer captured praying before arresting a pastor for contravening the Disaster Management Act. The clip, shared widely on social media, shows the officer saying a short prayer before handcuffing the offending pastor. The World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Tuesday that all available evidence suggests the novel coronavirus originated in animals in China late last year and was not manipulated or produced in a laboratory. US President Donald Trump said last week that his government was trying to determine whether the virus emanated from a lab in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where the coronavirus pandemic emerged in December. SA has put in place what has been described as one of the most stringent lockdowns outside the epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic, China, to try to stop the spread of the virus. While there have been many positive moments of South Africans coming together during this stressful time, the lockdown also highlighted issues that include the pre-existence of the country's inequalities. Kitty and Puppy Haven, an animal shelter in Midrand, Gauteng, is pleading for donations so it is able to continue operations for the duration of the lockdown. The sanctuary has been taking care of homeless and abused animals for 20 years by providing them with medical care and shelter while they await adoption. AfriForum's legal challenge to the race criteria used to determine which businesses score state-sponsored Covid-19 relief bailouts, has been postponed to next week. The Pretoria high court on Tuesday ruled that the organisation's urgent application for review against the department of tourism’s use of race as a benchmark for the awarding of Covid-19 relief to tourism enterprises be heard on April 28. A new study, still to be reviewed, tells us that a great many more South Africans than we realise have been infected with SARS-CoV-2 and are asymptomatic, and that the infection’s mortality rate is much lower than we thought. SARS-CoV-2 is the virus that causes the disease Covid-19. Trade and industry minister Ebrahim Patel has explained government thinking around the ban on cooked hot meals, saying it boiled down to limiting how the coronavirus was spread. A heated debate continues over the ban on cooked hot meals being served by supermarkets, restaurants and informal traders around the country. The government is facing a legal challenge to the regulations. Southern Africa's leading yeast manufacturer, Anchor Yeast, is immediately halting supplies of its 20g "Inkunzi malanga” brewers yeast which can be used to make beer at home. A message about the withdrawal sent to retail shops by the company has made its way into the online public domain. Joanne Clarke, director of consumer relations at Anchor Yeast, said on Tuesday that not all of the company's yeast products would be absent from shelves. With SA's 35-day Covid-19 lockdown in full force, thousands of South Africans are working from home while juggling parenting duties — learning patience along with home schooling. The McKay family have two sons — one in grade 4 and one in grade R and both parents have been working from home during the lockdown. Briathrine McKay told TimesLIVE on Tuesday that her sons’ schools send them weekly activities to do. The Gauteng health department said on Tuesday the number of Covid-19 patient recoveries in the province was standing at 574, from 551 a day ago. The province has recorded seven  deaths, up one from Monday. No details were provided. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Gauteng is 1,170. The defence force (SANDF) has laid a charge of fraud against the suppliers of food packs after discovering that “expired” meals were given to military personnel deployed on lockdown duties. This was revealed when soldiers discovered that stickers with revised expiry dates had been placed over the original stickers on the packs. President Donald Trump said Monday that he would temporarily suspend immigration to the United States because of the coronavirus pandemic, despite the US already being the worst-hit country in the world. Trump referred to the "Invisible Enemy," a phrase he has used to describe the virus that has killed more than 42,000 people in the US, which has more than 766,660 infections. The Free State has more than 70 patients who have recovered from Covid-19 and will be released from health facilities, the provincial department of health said on Tuesday. Department spokesperson Mondli Mvambi said 74 patients had fully recovered and would be reunited with their families. “We are monitoring these patients regularly through our health professionals to ensure they do not find themselves reinfected,” he said. On Monday evening the national department of health reported that the province had 105 confirmed cases. A Durban woman who tested positive for Covid-19 when she was admitted to hospital for the birth of her baby last week is recovering at home with her newborn, who also tested positive for the virus after delivery. The Ahmed Al Kadi private hospital confirmed on its social media platform on Monday that "an expectant mother has given birth to a baby who tested positive for Covid-19". Board chairman Dr Ayoob Bux said in a radio interview that the woman was well when she was admitted for a Caesarean section birth last week. Up to 45,000 South Africans are expected to die from Covid-19 over the next two to three years, says one of the eminent doctors advising President Cyril Ramaphosa. This is a shocking number, but it is much lower than an earlier estimate of between 120,000 and 150,000 fatalities. The government on Monday formally banned the sale of hot cooked food. Last week questions over comments made by trade and industry minister Ebrahim Patel over the sale of hot cooked food raised eyebrows after it was pointed out the regulations had not been made formal. When a Johannesburg couple began planning their wedding nine months ago, they never imagined that internet connectivity would be the most important detail on the day they said “I do”. Lennin Naidoo and Nattalean Pillay got married over Skype on Sunday with the marriage officiate sitting in his office in his Durban home, their parents watching via their cellphones from the spot with the best internet reception and the bride and groom in their living room. "President’s address flows from recent deliberations at Cabinet, the national coronavirus command council, the President’s coordinating council, and the national economic development and labour council, among others." Diepsloot residents are continuing with life as though the country is not under lockdown. In the swirl of cars and the routine army patrol in Diepsloot, Johannesburg, a woman is getting her hair braided, young men sit, relaxed, outside their shacks. Others stand in long queues. Resident, Lebo Mphela says she would rather roam the streets and “hustle” than stay indoors, starve and wait for food parcels. While the country is working on flattening its coronavirus curve, scammers are using these unprecedented times to try to con you. These scams include phishing and fake home screening for the virus. Social media is awash with advice on how to protect yourself from Covid-19. A voice note doing the rounds on WhatsApp is encouraging people to disinfect their groceries before packing them away. “You don’t know who has been handling the products, it could be an infected person,” it warns. The woman in the audio does not identify herself but says that she runs a non-profit organisation and attends many workshops where “good and important information” has been passed on. Government data shows 83 children aged 10 years and younger have been infected with Covid-19. Of the 83, 48 are male and 34 are female, with incomplete data on one case. Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize announced on Monday that four more people have died from Covid-19 in SA, taking the death toll to 58. Women between the ages of 31 and 40 are said to be the hardest hit by Covid-19 in SA. While it is still early days for SA's fight against the virus as the health department has predicted that the number of cases will increase in the months to come,  statistics from the National Department of Health shared on Monday night show that there were 456 women aged between 31 and 40 who had been confirmed as having tested positive for Covid-19. Two people who work at the funeral parlour that conducted the doomed March 21 funeral in Majola village, Port St Johns, have tested positive for Covid-19. Eight more workers, at Mfolozi Funeral Parlour's Port St Johns branch, have already tested for the virus but are yet to receive their results. Still battling the drought, Eastern Cape farmers are being squeezed further by the Covid-19 lockdown. Some of the worst-hit are medium-size farmers, who do not qualify for government's R1.2bn Covid-19 relief package, which makes provision only for farmers who earn between R50,000 and R1m a year, reports HeraldLIVE. Agriculture minister Thoko Didiza said earlier in April that machinery, infrastructure and overhead costs would not be supported and that there would be no payment of debt or financial support. The DA called for the aid package to be reconsidered as the lockdown was having a devastating impact on the finances of medium-scale farmers, who were consequently struggling to adhere to lockdown regulations . Former City of Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba has urged the government to put in place measures that will ensure that stimulus packages aimed at alleviating the impact of Covid-19 on South Africans are closely scrutinised to prevent corruption. "It is of grave concern that we have already witnessed the looting of food parcels for the most vulnerable in our society, allegations of a corrupt IT tender in Gauteng Province, and photos of a few food relief items costing more than R1200. "This is why I am calling on President Ramaphosa to ensure that any measures to generate an economic stimulus package, must be met with strong measures to be taken to ensure transparency and accountability."