IN THE NEWS TODAY: DA MP Phumzile Van Damme is against the idea of MK veterans helping the military and police during the 21-day national lockdown. According to Sowetan, the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) in KwaZulu-Natal will on Friday call on its members to strengthen law-enforcement efforts as the country tries to stop the spread of Covid-19. “The KwaZulu-Natal MKMVA feels the time has come for a roll-call on April 4 2020 in the province and the rest of SA to inform all our members to come out and reinforce our law-enforcement agencies in this self-sacrificing task of preventing the further spread of coronavirus,” provincial chairperson Themba Mavundla told the paper. The department of water & sanitation (DWS) in Gauteng has stepped up efforts to relieve water shortages by delivering 852 water tanks and 20 tankers to water-stressed communities that have the least capacity to avert the rapid spread of the coronavirus in the province. In a united effort to curb the spread of the virus, the department said it was working collaboratively with Rand Water and municipalities to provide water to desperate communities in the most densely populated informal settlements. Various areas in the province, including Roodepoort, Soweto and Ennerdale in the City of Johannesburg, and Hammanskraal in the City of Tshwane, benefited from the effort. Other areas that benefited include municipalities in the West Rand District Municipality, as well as Benoni in Ekurhuleni. Across the country street hawkers have been prohibited from trading during the national lockdown. “It is hard for everyone but for them it’s harder,” says Sibongumusa Zuma. He organised children to donate groceries to 10 street vendors in Dambuza, Pietermaritzburg, with help from local businesses. “We are living with them and we see them hustling every day,” said Zuma. “After the president’s announcement we sat down and discussed how we can assist them. We decided that we can buy them food. It’s not enough, but it will make a difference.” This article was first published by GroundUp The trauma unit at Durban's St Augustine's hospital was temporarily shut down on Friday. When TimesLIVE visited the hospital on Friday morning,  security guards at the hospital said no-one was allowed to enter the unit at the hospital because of the “virus”. Patients coming in were either being diverted to ambulances stationed outside the emergency room entrance or being diverted to other hospitals. A doctor who didn't want to be identified said the unit was put on precautionary shutdown amid coronavirus testing. South Africa has been in national lockdown for just over a week,  and Eskom said while it has been able to mostly keep the power on, it is being crippled by cable thieves. Police minister Bheki Cele on Thursday confirmed that seven days into lockdown, police had received more than 87,000 gender-based violence complaints. Addressing journalists on Thursday evening, Cele said the police would enforce the revised regulations as signed and gazetted by co-operative governance and traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. The department of health has provided a breakdown of Covid-19 statistics in South Africa. In a time of heightened fear and anxiety government has urged South Africans to check the veracity of information about Covid-19 before they share it. A barefoot little girl in a red flower print dress sat inside the Central Methodist Mission in Cape Town listening to the deafening banging on the ancient wooden church doors on Thursday afternoon. Outside, invisible to her, police Tactical Response Team members were storming the building, using special equipment and sledgehammers to smash through the wood and glass doors to the entrance of one of Greenmarket Square’s oldest buildings. The National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) will on Friday file court papers against the health ministry. “The National Department of Health has left us with no choice but to take an urgent and drastic legal action to compel it to comply with the Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 in order to protect our members on duty.”