April 30 2020 - 14:28 Groote Schuur temporarily shuts two labs after 15 workers contract Covid-19 One of the biggest laboratories in the country has seen a total of 15 lab technicians test positive for Covid-19. National Health Laboratory Services (NHLS) spokesperson Mzimasi Gcukumana confirmed that two labs at Groote Schuur hospital have been temporarily closed after 15 technicians tested positive for Covid-19. “The 15 staff members are all from the clinical pathology and haematology laboratories and were not involved in Covid-19 testing,” Gcukumana said. April 30 2020 - 13:52 Covid-19 'kills' Cosmopolitan publisher founded by Jane Raphaely Covid-19 has plunged a dagger into the heart of magazine publisher Associated Media, CEO Julia Raphaely said on Thursday. Raphaely — daughter of Jane Raphaely, who founded the company in Cape Town in 1982 — said the company would cease trading on Friday. Its magazine stable comprises Cosmopolitan, House & Leisure, Good Housekeeping and Women on Wheels. April 30 2020 - 13:52 Ready to jog or cycle outdoors? This tool shows how far you can venture South Africans are allowed to run, walk and cycle close to home under level 4 lockdown rules from Friday — and this tool shows exactly how far you can venture. Co-operative governance minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma said on Wednesday that this type of exercise would be allowed, up to 5km from home and only between 6am and 9am. April 30 2020 - 13:05 When Covid-19 rips a family apart, only tears follow The coronavirus can be as heartbreaking as it is deadly. No-one knows that better 80-year-old Mzimkhulu Mfama, who this week lost his wife of more than 30 years to Covid-19. Ntomboxolo Mfama, 69, died at Grey Hospital in King William’s Town on Tuesday, leaving behind Mzimkhulu who himself is battling to overcome the effects of the virus. Compounding the already tragic situation is that the widower’s grandchildren, aged five and 13, have been taken away by government officials. They, too, have Covid-19. April 30 2020 - 13:02 Swedish town uses chicken manure to help stop spread of coronavirus A town in southern Sweden has turned to a traditional source to try to prevent the coronavirus spreading during an annual festive event on Thursday - chicken manure. The university town of Lund began spreading chicken droppings in its central park to put off would-be revellers who would usually come on April 30 to celebrate Walpurgis Night. The occasion, marking the shift away from dark, chilly winter days towards brighter spring and summer days, is typically celebrated with picnics, parties and bonfires across the country, and regularly attracts thousands of students. April 30 2020 - 13:00 'Keeping your rent today can mean buying groceries tomorrow': Rent Strike SA Lobby group Rent Strike SA is calling on the government to proclaim a rental moratorium for the duration of the Covid-19 lockdown - and on banks to freeze home loans with no interest added. However, property experts have cautioned that this could hurt people in the same communities. Rent Strike SA is also calling on the government to reduce rates and taxes during the lockdown. April 30 2020 - 11:45 Mzansi on level 4 lockdown: 'How is this logical?' South Africans continue to flood social media with questions and concerns following co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma's address on Wednesday. The minister detailed gazetted regulations that will take effect on Friday when SA moves from "hard" lockdown to level 4 lockdown. This means that some economic activity will resume, with more than 1-million South Africans expected to return to work. April 30 2020 - 11:45 Top lawyers threaten legal action over powers of Covid-19 command council Two top lawyers have written to President Cyril Ramaphosa seeking clarity on the structure and powers of the national command council (NCC) on coronavirus. The nine-page letter by Luqmaan Hassan on behalf of advocates Nazeer Cassim SC and Erin Richards expresses the pair's concerns over “possible risks of constitutional and democratic malfunctions arising from what appears to be the questionable establishment, structure and functions of the NCC, as well as the noticeable lack of transparency from government about the body”. April 30 2020 - 11:44 What you need to know about the R350 unemployment grant and how to apply for it Social development minister Lindiwe Zulu has outlined the process of applications for the Covid-19 social relief of distress (SRD) grant for individuals who are unemployed. The grant forms part of the R500bn economic and social relief measures announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa last week to support the economy and save jobs and businesses during the Covid-19 pandemic. Qualifying applicants will receive R350 a month over the next six months, from May until October. April 30 2020 - 11:32 'The need is massive,' say donors as 3km Centurion food queue shocks SA Residents of Mooiplaas and Spruit informal settlements in Centurion, north of Johannesburg, came out in numbers to collect food hampers on Wednesday, forming a queue 3km long. While 8,000 food hampers were handed out, this is just a drop in the ocean, said social activist Yusuf Abramjee. “The need for food is massive. More than 80% of this community are foreigners and they have not received any help from government. We are happy we made a small difference,” he said. April 30 2020 - 10:41 Poor black Americans more vulnerable to Covid-19, New York study finds Poor black people who contract Covid-19 are more likely to end up in hospital and die, a study in New York City has found. Researchers in the epicentre of the pandemic in the US found that the Bronx - the borough with the highest proportion of racial and ethnic minorities, the most people living in poverty and the lowest levels of education - had higher rates of hospitalisation and death related to Covid-19 than the city's other four boroughs. Hospitalisation and death rates were lowest in Manhattan, the most affluent borough, where the population is mainly white. April 30 2020 - 09:47 'Coronavirus is the last thing to worry about while looking for gold deep inside a mine' When the national lockdown was announced in March, informal miner Fadzi Manono was underground and digging for gold at a mine in Benoni. When he returned to his home in Springs a week later, Manono says he was informed that police and soldiers were “all over the place” to see that residents remained in their homes to slow the spread of Covid-19. Manono, who moved to SA from Zimbabwe, said he decided to return to the mine to work for another week. “Coronavirus is the last thing to worry about while looking for gold deep inside a mine ... It was an opportunity to make more money,” he said. April 30 2020 - 09:45 Russia's coronavirus case tally passes 100,000 with record daily rise Russia on Thursday reported 7,099 new cases of the novel coronavirus, a record daily rise, bringing its nationwide tally to 106,498. The official nationwide death toll rose to 1,073 after 101 people with the virus died in the last 24 hours, Russia's coronavirus crisis response centre said. -REUTERS April 30 2020 - 08:41 Politicians oppose proposed plan to reopen schools Politicians have opposed the plan to reopen schools in SA, saying it is a rushed decision. On Wednesday, the department of basic education announced that grade 7 and 12 pupils may be going back to school on May 18. April 30 2020 - 08:36 Students and landlords struggle with rents during Covid-19 lockdown While some frustrated students are being asked to fork out for rent at month-end despite the lockdown, landlord Pumla Mgidi has taken a different approach and allowed her tenants to take a payment break. The 74-year-old from Block H in Soshanguve, Pretoria, has frozen rent payments for her student tenants, who are studying at the Tshwane University of Technology. But this means that Mgidi has lost about R8,500 a month due to the Covid-19 lockdown. April 30 2020 - 08:25 Tobacco association heads to court to challenge ban on cigarette sales The Fair Trade Independent Tobacco Association (Fita) is planning to take legal action against the government over the ban on the sale of cigarettes. The decision comes after cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana-Dlamini-Zuma's announcement on Wednesday evening that the sale of cigarettes would not be allowed under level 4 restrictions of the lockdown. Her announcement came a week after President Cyril Ramaphosa said the sale of cigarettes would be allowed. April 30 2020 - 08:00 Informal traders must be included in R500bn relief, says alliance Informal traders should be included as beneficiaries of the socio-economic measures worth R500bn that were announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa last week, the South African Informal Traders Alliance (Saita) said on Wednesday. The association, which represents the interests of about 2 million informal traders, said the lockdown from March 27 has caused unbearable strain to informal traders as they lost the opportunity to make income since then. The association said since Ramaphosa's first speech announcing the lockdown, he had promised that the government would look into how it could help informal traders, but said nothing has materialised 32 days into the lockdown. April 30 2020 - 07:34 Smokers livid as ciggies banned under level 4 lockdown Smokers are fuming over Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma's announcement on Wednesday night that the sale of cigarette and tobacco products will not be allowed under level 4 of lockdown, which will start on Friday. The co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) minister said the sale of cigarettes was opposed by about 2,000 people who engaged the government on the lockdown regulations. “We took into consideration and debated the matter and decided that we must continue as we are when it comes to cigarettes and tobacco products and we shouldn't open up the sale,” said the minister, adding that the reason for the continued ban is “health-related.” April 30 2020 - 07:25 Over 270,000 South Africans sign petition against ban on cigarette sales Over 270,000 South Africans have signed a petition against the ban on the sale of cigarettes, while the tobacco industry prepares to mount a legal challenge. In response to the government's apparent U-turn on Wednesday night, the Fair Trade Independent Tobacco Association (Fita) said: "Consulting with our attorneys and senior counsel on the urgent court application first thing in the morning. Let a court of law adjudicate on this issue once and for all." The petition, started by Bev McClean, was started when smokers were given one day's notice of the ban ahead of the lockdown on March 27. April 30 2020 - 07:00 Wits experts suggest healthy people under 50 be allowed out of lockdown With the country on the brink of an adjusted lockdown, two local experts have proposed a model in which healthy people below 50 would basically come out of lockdown, while those above 50 would remain at home. It is a “hybrid” approach that falls somewhere between the hard lockdown we have seen so far, and the “herd immunity” approach adopted in the early days of the pandemic by the UK. April 30 2020 - 07:00 Mzansi responds to school plan: 'Cancel 2020 academic year' South Africans have expressed concerns about the department of basic education's readiness to resume its academic activities on May 18, following a virtual address by the department's director-general Mathanzima Mweli. Pupils in grades 7 and 12 will be the first to be phased in. Addressing parliament's basic education oversight committee, Mweli detailed protective measures put in place to ensure the safety of pupils, teachers and other staff. April 30 2020 - 06:30 Campaign demands water for dozens more communities The South African Food Sovereignty Campaign has called for the withdrawal of charges against 10 leaders from Coastal Links, who were arrested on April 14 when they convened to discuss how to meet the water needs of the Centane area in the Eastern Cape. The campaign also wants dozens of parts of the Eastern Cape and Limpopo to be treated as drought disaster areas. It says small-scale farmers in those communities should be given urgent support to ensure farming continues.