Cuba sent 216 healthcare workers to South Africa on Saturday, the latest of more than 20 medical brigades it has sent worldwide to combat the coronavirus pandemic, in what some call socialist solidarity and others medical diplomacy. Some municipalities want part of the R20bn Covid-19 relief fund to help them deliver basic services. Midvaal mayor Bongani Baloyi said municipalities had lost millions in revenue in the economic shutdown. He feared they might not be able to provide services if the national lockdown continues. Meanwhile, the auditor-general, Kimi Makwetu, has offered to send a team of experts to help government departments and municipalities prevent theft from the overall R500bn emergency Covid budget. The R20bn will be allocated to municipalities to help them deliver water tanks, personal protective equipment, sanitisers for public transport and other elements to help contain the spread of the virus. But Baloyi said that if some of the money was not provided to municipalities for their operations, "very few municipalities will be standing by the time we get to December". The economy was the biggest winner in the government's relaxed Covid-19 regulations announced yesterday, as more than 1.5-million workers are expected to return to their jobs next week under the level four lockdown that begins on Friday. The government appears to have heeded appeals from business to open the economy after 30 days of lockdown, with most sectors expected to open their doors for the first time since the national lockdown was implemented on March 27. Seven more people have succumbed to Covid-19 bringing the death toll to 86 in South Africa. The health ministry said on Saturday evening that the latest deaths included four in the Eastern Cape, two in the Western Cape and one in Limpopo. The total number of infections in the country now stands at 4,361. The provincial breakdown of Covid-19 positive cases as of Saturday evening was: Gauteng (1,304), Western Cape (1,514), KwaZulu-Natal (847), Eastern Cape (488), Free State (111), Limpopo (30), North West (28), Mpumalanga (23), Northern Cape (16). There were no unallocated cases.