African Union says it is concerned about reports that African nationals are allegedly being mistreated in China. "As Chair of the African Union, South Africa is deeply concerned about reports of alleged ill-treatment of African nationals in China, including the forceful testing, quarantining for Covid-19, and other inhuman treatment." Lindiwe Sisulu, human settlements minister, said she has not ordered mass removal of people from informal settlements as a measure to tackle overcrowding during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have never done that nor given any indication of that,” she said in a statement on Sunday. Trevor Manuel, former finance minister, joins a continental team including a former Credit Suisse CEO and economists named by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday to mobilise international support for Africa’s efforts to address the economic challenges African countries will face as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Ramaphosa is also chair of the African Union (AU). Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Donald Kaberuka and Tidjane Thiam join Manuel as special envoys of the AU. An Eastern Cape church minister was arrested for breaching lockdown rules in the Eastern Cape on Saturday. The reverend was arrested together with the owner of the property where the service was held in Whittlesea. The correctional services department is making plans for babies of two offenders at an East London female prison to be taken to their mothers' families after cases of Covid-19 at the correctional facility. There are 26 confirmed coronavirus cases at the East London Correctional Centre. Three are inmates while 23 are officials working at the East London Medium C Centre in Westbank. The department said it was awaiting results of all other offenders who had been tested. Minister Ronald Lamola visited the centre on Sunday. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was discharged from hospital on Sunday, a Downing Street spokesman said, a week after being admitted for treatment for coronavirus and spending three days in intensive care. "The PM has been discharged from hospital to continue his recovery, at Chequers," the spokesman said, referring to the prime minister's country estate outside London. "On the advice of his medical team, the PM will not be immediately returning to work." Johnson, 55, was admitted to St Thomas' Hospital on Sunday evening with a persistent high temperature and cough, and was rushed to intensive care on Monday where he spent three nights receiving treatment. There are 26 confirmed coronavirus cases at the East London Correctional Centre in Westbank. Three are inmates while 23 are officials working at the centre. All three of the infected inmates are women. This was confirmed to DispatchLIVE by justice minister Ronald Lamola, who visited the centre on Sunday. Cape Town restaurant The Lawns is claiming to have received an essential services certificate from government and will start making food for customers for delivery or collection. Unannounced visits to ensure compliance with Covid-19 safety measures at correctional facilities is part of the government's strategy to mitigate risk of infections within the prison system. This assurance by the ministry of justice and correctional services follows a Sunday Times expose, which stated that the strict protocols showcased to Minister Ronald Lamola on Wednesday were a charade. When a Sunday Times team visited the jail on Friday, there was no sign of the precautions that greeted Lamola. A journalist entered without being screened for Covid-19 symptoms or having his hands sanitised. Visitors and officials mingled as if there was no risk of contagion. Staff said new inmates were admitted without health screening and were not kept apart from the existing prison population. Even the “hand sanitiser” that was used was really tap water, the newspaper reported. April 12 2020 - 11:45 Covid-19 cases rise in Johannesburg and Ekurhuleni The Gauteng province has recorded 813 cases of Covid-19, the health department said on Sunday, an increase of 12 cases since data released on Saturday. Of the total number of Covid-19 cases recorded in the province, 467 cases were from Johannesburg, 131 from Ekurhuleni, 92 from Tshwane, 30 from the West Rand, and six from Sedibeng. There are 77 unallocated cases. The total number of deaths is three. April 12 2020 - 11:32 SA diplomats join intervention over treatment of Africans in China amid coronavirus Allegations of Africans being targeted in China and subjected to forced evictions, arbitrary quarantines and mass coronavirus testing are unconfirmed, but will be raised with the Asian country, says SA's department of international relations and co-operation (Dirco). “We urge the Chinese authorities to investigate these allegations about Africans being subjected to testing for the coronavirus,” Dirco said on Sunday. April 12 2020 - 10:45 Lockdown is costing SA an estimated R10bn a day, says FMF The Free Market Foundation says its research suggests that SA's Covid-19 lockdown is costing the country at least R10bn daily, or R350bn in five weeks. “That is enough for 3.5 million RDP houses; enough to house all homeless people and people crammed into overcrowded shanties. It is enough to feed 30 million undernourished people daily or build twenty hospitals ... every day. It could fund universal health care, modernise and upgrade all clinics, and fund thousands more doctors, nurses, teachers or police,” the organisation says. April 12 2020 - 8:57 Gauteng Liquor Forum threatens to go to court if ban on sale of alcohol is not lifted The Gauteng Liquor Forum has given government until Tuesday to lift or amend the regulation on the total ban on the sale of alcohol, or it will approach the Constitutional Court. In a letter written to President Cyril Ramaphosa, the forum, which represents 20,000 micro and small businesses in Gauteng, said they operated in the pursuance not only of their financial wellbeing but also in the exercise and protection of their legal and constitutional rights. “More importantly the lockdown regulations restrict the movements of persons and goods. In particular, regulation 11B(1)(b) provides that all businesses and other entities shall cease operations during lockdown, save for essential services and goods,” the letter reads. April 12 2020 - 8:57 Trapped honeymoon South Africans finally leave Maldives A South African honeymoon couple marooned in the Maldives finally left Saturday along with some of the few remaining tourists trapped by the coronavirus pandemic. Olivia and Raul De Freita were the only guests left at an upmarket island resort in March as the hotel began shutting down due to Covid-19. They reportedly spent their life savings on the dream trip. The De Freitas were among 40 South Africans in the Indian Ocean nation who were evacuated Saturday, said the South African consul in the Maldives, Mohamed Ali Manik. Local authorities organised discounted rates for anyone left stranded. But "everyone was really happy...and eager to get home," Manik told AFP. -AFP April 12 2020 - 8:31 An increase in liquor store burglaries giving Cele a headache One of the biggest sources of police minister Bheki Cele’s headaches, since the Covid lockdown was announced, is the growing spate of alcohol theft. Cele, who has frequented the Western Cape since the lockdown started, visited shopping centres in Mbekweni, in Paarl, and Kraaifontein on Saturday. He hinted that a syndicate could be behind the burglaries. Cele, who was accompanied by the police top echelons, said 16 liquor stores had been burgled - and that the Western Cape was leading with the break-ins.