More than one million cases of the coronavirus have been detected in Europe, just over half the global total, according to a tally compiled by AFP from official sources at 0830 GMT Wednesday. With at least 1,003,284 cases, including 84,465 deaths, Europe is the worst hit continent. Globally, 1,991,019 COVID-19 infections and 125,955 deaths have been registered. The tallies, using data collected by AFP from national authorities and information from the World Health Organization (WHO), probably reflect only a fraction of the actual number of infections. Many countries are testing only the most serious cases. AFP The European Union will host an online conference on May 4 for governments and organisations to pledge money to support the search for a vaccine to the novel coronavirus, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Wednesday. "To support this global initiative, funding is needed," Von der Leyen told a joint news conference with European Council President Charles Michel. "I hope that countries and organisations all over the world will respond to this call," she said. Reuters Four people in the military community have tested positive for the coronavirus, the surgeon-general of the SA National Defence Force said on Wednesday. The SANDF said those who had tested positive were not soldiers deployed to help in the coronavirus lockdown operations but had links to the defence force. With spiraling numbers of global confirmed Covid-19 cases, social distancing and quarantine measures have been instituted across much of the world, with stay-at-home orders implemented by most governments. Global coronavirus cases are approaching 2 million, with more than 126,000 deaths . Six South Africans living on different continents amid the pandemic, share their experiences of what lockdown is like away from home. Contentious lobby group AfriForum has hauled the department of tourism to court in an urgent bid to overturn race criteria which determine which businesses score state-sponsored Covid-19 relief bailouts. At the heart of the looming legal battle is the R200m Tourism Relief Fund, announced by minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane as a buffer for businesses in the tourism sector which have been severely affected by the national lockdown. The United States may need to endure social distancing measures adopted during the coronavirus outbreak until 2022, according to researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health. The study comes as more than 2,200 people died in the United States from the outbreak on Tuesday, a record, according to a Reuters tally, even as the country debated how to reopen its economy. The overall death toll in the US from the virus stands at more than 28,300 as of Tuesday. Gauteng Premier David Makhura says alcohol sales should be regulated even after the lockdown comes to an end. Briefing the media on Tuesday during his visit to a Covid-19 food bank storage in Ekurhuleni, Pretoria, Makhura said Gauteng would apply strict measures to deal with people who consumed alcohol and misbehaved. Twenty days into lockdown and South Africans are reflecting on the lessons the it has taught them this far. The world will need more than one Covid-19 vaccine so drug companies must partner in the race to develop the weapons to fight the novel coronavirus, GlaxoSmithKline Chief Executive Officer Emma Walmsley said on Wednesday. GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Sanofi SA said on Tuesday they would develop a vaccine to fight the fast-spreading coronavirus. The drugmakers said they expect to start clinical trials for the vaccine in the second half of this year. If successful, the vaccine would be available in the second half of 2021. A Dis-Chem pharmacy at the Blubird Shopping Centre in Johannesburg has been closed after a staff member tested positive for Covid-19. Dis-Chem's national clinic manager, Lizeth Kruger, said in a statement that a staff member had tested positive and had been sent home to self-isolate and seek medical care, if necessary. “The store was closed [Tuesday] and a professional cleaning service, complete with staff in hazmat suits, has been brought in to thoroughly deep clean the whole shop. The store will reopen on Friday,” said the statement. A 99-year-old World War II veteran in Brazil was released from hospital with military honors Tuesday after recovering from the coronavirus. Second Lieutenant Ermando Piveta, who served in the Brazilian artillery in Africa during the Second World War, was brought out of Brasilia's Armed Forces Hospital to trumpet music and applause. Wearing an army-green side cap, he raised his arms in the air as he left after eight days as a patient. The United States recorded 2,228 deaths related to the coronavirus pandemic over the past 24 hours, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University as of 8:30 pm Tuesday (0030 GMT Wednesday). The number of fatalities was a sharp increase after two days in decline. The outbreak has now claimed the lives of at least 25,757 people in the US, the most of any country.  AFP Netcare Kingsway Hospital in Amanzimtoti, south of Durban, stopped admitting new patients on Tuesday after it emerged that staff had tested positive for Covid-19. A hospital receptionist told TimesLIVE on Wednesday morning that the hospital was on divert. “Unfortunately, we are not admitting new patients at the moment,” she said. National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) provincial secretary Ayanda Zulu confirmed that the trauma unit had been closed on Tuesday after a patient and staff tested positive. The total number of infections in the Eastern Cape was 175 on Tuesday afternoon. Of these,  53 inmates and 24 correctional services officials in the province have tested positive for the virus. The East London Correctional Centre, where the virus has spread rapidly, has the bulk of the correctional services cases  — 76. Besides the St Albans case and those at the East London prison, a correctional services official at the department’s head office in Pretoria has also tested positive. Correctional Services spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said 34 officials at St Albans had already been placed in quarantine Donald Trump ordered a freeze on funding for the World Health Organization for "mismanaging" the coronavirus crisis, as world leaders weighed easing lockdowns that threaten to tip the global economy into a second Great Depression. The death toll from the pandemic has topped 125,000, with nearly two million people infected by the disease that has upended society and changed lives for billions around the globe confined to their homes. Across the planet, leaders are agonising over when to lift lockdown measures to jump-start devastated economies but still avoid a second wave of infections. It’s safe to handle packaged goods during the coronavirus outbreak, an industry body says. And it cites some weighty research to back this up. Several people were arrested and stores looted after protests over expected food parcel deliveries at Mitchells Plain in Cape Town. Police spokesperson Brig Novela Potelwa said residents from Tafelsig took to the streets on Tuesday after allegedly being promised food parcels. Several roads were barricaded with burning tyres and rocks. Intensive care specialists at Tygerberg Hospital in Cape Town have a new infection-resistant “colleague” helping them do ward rounds on Covid-19 patients. That colleague is a robot named Quintin, who stands as an example of how the pandemic has brought ingenuity and collaboration to the fore. The robot, made by Double Robotics, has been employed to help specialists do “virtual” ward rounds if they are unable to be present — even from home. Post the lockdown, there will be two types of people: those who achieved their fitness goals and those who will rush to the gym to shed all the weight gained from indulging in their favourite foods and binge-watching shows on Netflix. Since the lockdown started on March 26, South Africans have adopted different approaches as some continue to work hard on their fitness while others are spending more time in the kitchen making their favourite treats. Take our poll and let us know if you are keeping fit or not during this lockdown. Contentious lobby group AfriForum has hauled the department of tourism to court in an urgent bid to overturn race criteria which determine which businesses score state-sponsored Covid-19 relief bailouts. At the heart of the looming legal battle is the R200m Tourism Relief Fund, announced by minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane as a buffer for businesses in the tourism sector which have been severely affected by the national lockdown.