April 19 2020 - 14:38 'Government not doing enough to save black-owned small businesses,' says Black Business Council Black Business Council president Sandile Zungu has expressed concern over government’s inadequate facilities to support SMMEs which are likely to collapse in the coming months. While lauding the efforts of President Cyril Ramaphosa and government's efforts to arrest the spread of Covid-19, Zungu says that an estimated 500,000 jobs will be lost in the SMME sector alone. April 19 2020 - 14:38 Business call for more repo rate cuts to save economy from effects of Covid-19 pandemic The Reserve Bank will have to make another and more significant intervention amid fears that between one and three million jobs will be lost in the coming months due to economic inactivity as a result of the national lockdown. This is according to Business Unity SA chair Sipho Pityana and Black Business Council president Sandile Zungu. April 19 2020 - 14:22 KZN premier announces 'new approach' to curb Covid-19 KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala is briefing the media on Sunday to announce a 'new approach' to intensify efforts to curb Covid-19 spread in the province. His office said the announcement follows the KZN Command Team meeting held on Friday. Several police officers have been arrested for contravening lockdown regulations, including liquor-related crimes, police minister Bheki Cele said on Sunday. Cele said a “small percentage” of officers were arrested after they sought “to rubbish the good work of the security forces during the lockdown”. Cele said police had a zero-tolerance approach to criminality and corruption by its own members. The Gauteng health department said on Sunday morning that the province had recorded 545 Covid-19 recoveries. In a statement, health MEC Bandile Masuku also confirmed national health department figures of 1,101 cases in Gauteng of the respiratory illness, which is caused by the coronavirus. The country's eight metro municipalities are gearing up to deal with mass burials related to Covid-19 deaths, with the pandemic expected to reach its peak in the coming weeks. This is according to the mayor of the city of Polokwane, Thembi Nkadimeng, who was speaking in her capacity as the president of the SA Local Government Association (Salga). Five new Covid-19 cases have been reported in SA's correctional services department, but none of the cases are of inmates testing positive. The department said on Saturday evening that five officials were positive for the respiratory illness, bringing the total to 99. Of those, 56 were inmates. Funerals are a “centre” for the spread of the coronavirus, and South Africans need to change their behaviour. Hugging, kissing and consoling — and even digging the grave and sharing a communal meal — have been earmarked as areas of concern. SA is hurtling towards new power cuts, due to hit the country in May. This is despite Eskom conducting maintenance on its ageing power stations during a decline in demand in the lockdown. Energy analysts said that while the current decline in demand greatly helped Eskom, it had allowed for only low-level and routine repairs. The Covid-19 pandemic, coupled with escalating costs and declining revenue have claimed the iconic Carousel Casino and Naledi Casino, both of whom have permanently been closed, and will not reopen after the national lockdown. As the government grapples with finalising a plan to feed a growing number of desperately hungry people amid the Covid-19 national lockdown, shelters say they are seeing starving people who have not eaten for up to a week. A crucial cabinet meeting tomorrow will consider proposals to provide relief to save millions from hunger - including a temporary increase in social grants and introduction of a basic income grant. This comes amid growing calls for President Cyril Ramaphosa to announce a bold stimulus package for SA. Changing seating plans so that pupils’ chairs are at least 1.5m apart and a ban on the sharing of desks are among the measures the department of basic education is proposing when schools reopen. Teachers and pupils will also be strongly discouraged from hugging, shaking hands or having any other “direct contact” with others. The proposals, designed to comply with the department of health’s directive on physical distancing, are contained in the basic education department’s “draft post Covid-19 lockdown recovery plan”, which was discussed with teacher unions and governing body associations this week. As SA braces for an onslaught of Covid-19 infections, the state is moving to establish 1,644 emergency field hospitals and quarantine sites to shield a health-care system short of critical-care beds and ventilators. A total of 2,000 beds for quarantine patients are being installed at the Nasrec centre in Johannesburg - which is being retrofitted to accommodate patients - and three acute facilities under construction in the Western Cape. Gauteng and the Western Cape appear to be furthest along, but provincial health departments in KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape said plans were being drawn up, ushering in the next stage of the fight against the pandemic as lockdown restrictions are eased.