Residents in a Durban building are being screened after “serious” allegations of suspected Covid-19 cases. This is according to the department of economic development which, along with law enforcement agencies, shut down the building in the early hours of Wednesday after receiving a complaint. “We received a serious complaint about people who alleged to have symptoms of coronavirus who live in a building in West Street (Dr Pixley Kaseme street)," said the department. A little over 100 students from the University of Cape Town's faculty of health sciences have volunteered to man the Tygerberg Hospital Disaster Management covid-19 hotline. Tygerberg Hospital is one of nine provincial centres identified for the isolation and treatment of patients infected with the coronavirus. The response from students has been “overwhelming”, said president of the faculty’s UCT Surgical Society, Savannah Verhage, a fifth-year medical student with plans to become a paediatric surgeon who has been coordinating the volunteers from the various faculty student societies. They have been classified as emergency medical personnel and have permits that allow them to travel to and from the centre during the lockdown period. Small business development minister Khumbudzo Ntshavheni has unveiled a scheme to assist spaza shop owners during the lockdown. Strict terms and conditions will apply, however. The support to spaza shops will not discriminate on whether or they are owned by South Africans or foreign nationals. As long as they are properly registered, all shall receive assistance, said Ntshavheni, Details about when applications will open will be announced on April 2, she added. Tributes have been pouring in from around the world for internationally acclaimed scientist, academic and women's rights campaigner Prof Gita Ramjee who died in a Durban hospital of Covid-19 complications on Tuesday. A family member, who asked not to be named, confirmed Ramjee's death following complications arising from asthma and pneumonia and that she had been cremated. He said her husband, Praveen, a well known pharmacist was “lost” following her death. At the time of her death, Ramjee worked at health care organisation Aurum Institute, which is regarded as a global authority on HIV and TB prevention and eradication. Government has once again reminded South Africans to stay at home in order to contain the spread of the deadly Covid-19. Former Western Cape ANC chairperson Marius Fransman has tested positive for Covid-19. Fransman made the announcement in a Facebook post on Tuesday evening. “Since my return from abroad 2 weeks ago, I didn't feel too well and decided in line with health protocols and realising that this has become life's reality, to do a test last Monday.