The massive Cape Town township of Khayelitsha has recorded its second case of Covid-19, Western Cape premier Alan Winde said on Thursday. The new case was among 393 confirmed in the province, 321 of which were in the Cape Town metro. “While infections have grown more slowly here than elsewhere, we are seeing trends which are cause for concern,” Winde said in his daily coronavirus bulletin. “Last Sunday, we announced our first cases in Khayelitsha and Mitchells Plain. We are also seeing an increase in the number of local transmissions and increasing admissions to hospital. “As of this morning, 20 people in the Western Cape had been admitted to hospital, with seven in intensive care facilities.” Winde said the Western Cape government was looking at a number of buildings that could be used as temporary health care facilities and quarantine and isolation sites. “We are at an advanced stage in this process, and once we have completed all of the contractual matters, we will be making a further announcement,” he said. Western Cape police commissioner Yolisa Matakata had told him certain types of crime had decreased during the lockdown, which enters its second week at midnight on Thursday. “However, we have also seen criminal elements taking advantage of the lockdown, with an increase in certain other types of crime and school vandalism incidents,” said Winde. “We are also concerned that the lockdown could result in increased incidents of domestic abuse which are not being reported as a result of the regulations being in place.” The premier said a dedicated bus route to various hospitals had been implemented from Thursday to help health care workers get to and from work “safely and on time”. Winde said the provincial health department had worked with leading SA scientists to provide clear advice on appropriate and safe use of masks to avoid contracting or spreading Covid-19. “At the outset it is important to distinguish between medical masks, or N95 respirators, and cloth masks (either homemade or procured)," he said. “One of the Western Cape department of health’s top priorities is to ensure that our front-line health care workers ... have the required N95 respirators and/or medical masks. “There is a global shortage of these masks so we please urge all residents to not obtain or use these, so that we can ensure enough supply to the front-line health care workers in our hospitals and clinics.” Winde said cloth masks, which could be made at home, could be widely used but it was important to do so properly. He offered the following tips: Winde also published guidelines for how to make a cloth mask: “I want to call on the people of the Western Cape to only make cloth masks in line with our approved cloth mask standard — and to please make sure they follow these guidelines on their proper use,” said Winde. “If you cannot make them properly or use them properly, it is safer to not use them at all. “Many homes have the materials required and can make masks immediately. So make for your home — and then make more to donate to others who can’t make their own. I will announce where and how we can get those masks from you shortly.”