The department of water and sanitation has delivered 262 water tanks in Limpopo to deal with water shortages during the 21-day lockdown. The province will also get 27 trucks (water tankers). A SA man of Italian descent tried to fly into the country via Harare - but was bust and deported, after police were alerted. Transport ministry spokesperson Ayanda Allie Paine said he was intercepted on Wednesday afternoon. “A private charter aircraft landed at OR Tambo International Airport from Harare, Zimbabwe, with one passenger on board. “The flight was not cleared by the department of transport as required in terms of the current protocols in force during the lockdown. The passenger and the crew were held at the airport ...” The department of small business development has announced that the Debt Relief Finance Scheme and Business Growth/Resilience Facility application forms for small medium and micro enterprises are now available here. Tourists, foreign workers and students stranded in SA by the sudden Covid-19 lockdown will be able to return home on chartered flights operated by SAA. This was announced on Thursday by SAA's business rescue practitioners Les Matuson and Siviwe Dongwana. The first of these chartered flights will be for the repatriation of German citizens to their home country. They are expected to depart from Friday — from Johannesburg to Munich and Cape Town to Frankfurt. Negotiations are ongoing with other governments for the repatriation of their citizens. The health department will on Thursday launch 60 new mobile Covid-19 testing units. Initially government had seven mobile testing units. Health minister Zweli Mkhize will also receive a little over 1,500 mobile devices from Samsung in support of Covid-19 tracing efforts. Samsung CEO Sung Yoon and Telkom CEO Sipho Maseko joined Mkhize at the EMS Centre in Midrand where the handover will take place. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula started day seven of the 21-day national lockdown at Bree Taxi Rank, Johannesburg CBD where him and his team went to ensure that drivers complied with the regulations. Just hours after announcing that minibus taxis were allowed to carry a full load as long as all passengers wore masks, Mbalula rescinded the rule saying taxis can only fill the car up to 70%. As the month of April starts with all of us under lockdown, some South Africans are worried about what this means for their income.