While the coronavirus lockdown has seen significantly fewer crimes committed, police minister Bheki Cele said it was concerning that men were among the fatal victims of domestic abuse. Cele said at a briefing in Durban on Tuesday that men had been killed by their partners during this time. A nursing union that claims to represent 10,000 nurses is threatening a stayaway from Workers' Day on May 1 if their demands around compensation and working conditions are not met. The president of the Young Nurses Indaba Trade Union (YNITU) Lerato Madumo-Gova said that they were giving the government two weeks to respond. ANC MPs have come out in support of soldiers amid allegations that they have been abusive towards civilians while enforcing the lockdown. During a meeting of parliament's joint defence committee on Wednesday, defence minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and the SANDF top brass, the ANC component of the oversight structure, said soldiers should not allow “anarchists” to undermine the authority of the state. Sandton, Houghton, Orange Grove, Alexandra and Wynberg are among the Covid-19 hotspots in Gauteng, with a combined 227 positive cases as of Wednesday. Other hotspots in the Johannesburg region include Randburg, Rosebank, Emmarentia, Greenside, Melville, Mayfair, Northcliff, Parktown and Parktown North, according to the latest figures released by the provincial health department. Brand SA board member Tebogo Mamorobela has been suspended for breaching the  lockdown regulations. Mamorobela is also in trouble in the Makhado local municipality, where she is an ANC councillor and head of corporate services. The kingdom of Eswatini on Wednesday reversed a decision to relax coronavirus restrictions after infections almost doubled to 31 in one week. Authorities in Africa's last absolute monarchy last week eased some of the restrictions imposed on March 27. But Prime Minister Ambrose Dlamini, complaining that "complacency among the populace is creeping in", said the rules would go back into force on Friday. The Spur Group will not be opening any time soon as it was hit hard financially by physical distancing rules even before the lockdown as customers stayed away. Chief operating officer Mark Farrelly told CapeTalk radio on Tuesday how the group was keeping afloat during the lockdown. He said that while he was a “massive” supporter of government initiatives to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, it was a challenging time for business. More than 600,000 workers have benefited from the Unemployment Insurance Fund relief scheme since the declaration of the Covid-19 lockdown. Employment and labour minister Thulas Nxesi told parliament on Wednesday that R1.6bn had been paid out to more than 37,000 companies and 606,000 workers by the end of business on Tuesday. FNB Stadium is on standby to serve as a field hospital to treat Covid-19 patients‚ once it gets the go-ahead on such a proposal from the government. Bertie Grobbelaar‚ managing director of Stadium Management SA (SMSA)‚ told TimesLIVE on Wednesday that the company that manages the 94‚000-seat FNB Stadium has sent a proposal to the government for the 2010 World Cup final venue to be utilised as a coronavirus treatment centre and is awaiting a response. The cabinet has been weighing up a proposal to ease SA’s national lockdown with a five-stage “alert system” that pegs economic activity to the severity of Covid-19 transmission. Businesses and employees would know what activities are permitted at each alert stage, and the government could quickly move the entire country or specific provinces or districts between the different alert stages, depending on the epidemic’s trajectory and the risk of infection. The proposal, outlined in a document obtained by Business Day, was put to cabinet at a special sitting on Monday. The number of Covid-19 cases in the Western Cape soared over 1,000 on Wednesday, and deaths in the province increased by five to 22. Premier Alan Winde said the five people who had died were men aged 43, 49 and 79 and women aged 54 and 95. While South Africans watched President Cyril Ramaphosa as he addressed the nation on Tuesday night and announced a massive economic support package in response to the pandemic, several citizens took to social media to say they saw strain in his eyes. One of them was Claire Lagerwall from KwaZulu-Natal, whose concern about the first citizen of the country prompted a 178-word poem of support. DA leader John Steenhuisen said his party wants clarity on the deployment of 73,180 additional soldiers by President Cyril Ramaphosa. In a letter written to the co-chairperson of the defence portfolio committee, Cyril Xaba, Ramaphosa outlined his government’s plans to deploy the additional soldiers. This number will add to the 2,820 members who started work last month enforcing the lockdown alongside police. South Africa must ensure it manages the spread of Covid-19 carefully, while ensuring that it does not suffer an economic catastrophe. President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic adviser, Trudi Makhaya, said this in an interview with SABC TV news on the R500bn socio-economic relief package announced by the president on Tuesday. On a chart which maps the rise in cases in each country, the US and SA are the opposite of one another. The trajectory of the infection rate in the US continues to barrel upward beyond 775,000, while in South Africa the effects of a wide-scale screening and testing campaign, along with a national lockdown, appear to be flattening the curve. A malaria drug widely touted as a potential cure for Covid-19 showed no benefit against the disease over standard care — and was in fact associated with more deaths, the biggest study of its kind showed on Tuesday. The US government funded analysis of how American military veterans fared on hydroxychloroquine was posted on a medical preprint site and has not yet been peer reviewed. The experiment had several important limitations, but adds to a growing body of doubt over the efficacy of the medicine that counts President Donald Trump and right wing news channel Fox News among its biggest backers. Former DA leader Mmusi Maimane has spoken out about allegations of abuse and discrimination against Africans in China. In a video shared on Twitter, Maimane said the coronavirus outbreak must not be used as an opportunity to advance racism or discrimination. He also called on AU chairperson Cyril Ramaphosa to facilitate the repatriation of Africans who wish to return from China. While many South African businesses are feeling the pinch during the national Covid-19 coronavirus lockdown, many online businesses are experiencing an influx of trade on their platforms. At least 131 police officers, security members and government officials — specifically councillors — have been arrested for Covid-19-related lockdown crimes over the past month. Police minister Bheki Cele said 89 police officers formed part of the overall figure. Economists have welcomed the socio-economic relief measures worth R500bn announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa to address the Covid-19 crisis. Economist Xhanti Payi said the government had done well to offer relief to the most vulnerable in terms of cash and vouchers so as to stave off hunger. “Had the government not moved in a significant way, it may have led to unrest and the violation of the lockdown,” Payi said in a note on the stimulus package. Residents found drinking hand sanitisers to quench their thirst for alcohol may soon find themselves behind bars,  Eastern Cape house of traditional leaders chairperson Mvelo Nonkonyana told DispatchLIVE on Tuesday. An events company owner has threatened to head to the Constitutional Court if President Cyril Ramaphosa extends the Covid-19 lockdown beyond April 30. In a letter addressed to Ramaphosa and all government departments, Clinton Baratt, the owner of Happy Events SA, said he would go to the apex court to challenge the president's “draconian” measures and “excessive abuse of power”. “I have the full right to approach a competent court if I believe my rights have been infringed. This is all in the RSA constitution,” said Baratt, who says he needs to be able to work to earn an income. Zwelinzima Vavi says he will be testing for Covid-19 for the third time after his second test results came back positive. The SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) leader was discharged from hospital two weeks ago after testing positive for the virus. President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic recovery plan has found favour with many South Africans, including opposition party leaders. The stringent regulation of banning the sale of alcohol during lockdown has led to a major decline in violent crimes, according to police minster Bheki Cele. Murder, rape, hijackings and robbery with aggravating circumstances were down drastically in comparison to stats last year. Cele, who addressed media in Durban on Wednesday, said the the ban on alcohol had a major role to play in the reduction of crimes. National Prosecution Authority said on Wednesday communications minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams has paid an admission of guilt fine of R1,000. Some social media users were unimpressed with a young unemployed graduate who suggested that the R350 unemployment social grant should be for those people with only a matric certificate, saying those with post-matric qualifications should get more. Tiffany's SuperSpar on the KwaZulu-Natal north coast temporarily closed on Tuesday after a staff member tested positive for Covid-19. Owner Charles Wilson said the supermarket in Umhlali would reopen when it was granted permission to do so. “We will keep you informed. The health and safety of customers, the community and all staff remain the highest priority at Tiffany's SuperSpar. Our store, along with all Spar stores, has been unfailingly diligent in implementing measures to limit the risk of Covid-19 transmission during the lockdown. The South African Federation of Trade Unions says the reopening of mines to 50% capacity might cause more Covid-19 infections. "The government’s own virology advisor Professor Salim Karim a week ago suggested that new daily infections be limited to below 90. That rate has soared to more than 200 since then. Reopening the mines and wine-exporting farms would greatly inflate the daily infection levels and prevent a flattening of the curve which is required to reduce the pressure on the county’s stretched medical services." By implementing a strict lockdown early on SA has without doubt been able to contain the spread of Covid-19, but another factor that has counted in the county’s favour is the age structure of the population, which is mostly made up of young people. So says Prof Graeme Meintjes, a University of Cape Town infectious diseases expert. Meintjes said with only 5% of the population over the age of 65 there is a good chance that SA will not experience as high a mortality rate as other Covid-19 hotspots like Italy and Spain where more than 20% of the population are elderly. Victoria Falls, which lies on the border of Zimbabwe and Zambia, has recorded its highest flows in a decade. Zambezi River Authority public relations and communications manager Elizabeth Karonga said the high water levels were due to a significant increase in both rainfall and run-off in the catchment area upstream of Victoria Falls during the current rainfall season. Sphesihle Ndaba, a parent of children in grades 1 and 3, sometimes makes them dress in school uniform to help distract them from the lockdown. She is among many parents who are having to not only adjust to the pressures of working from home, but also helping their children with the school curriculum. "The kids don’t seem to be suffering. They understand what’s going on. As a parent I have a lot to worry about and I’m anxious about the future. I wish I knew exactly how long I will have to multitask. It’s helpful that I have a reliable internet connection to help with school work." Antibody tests have changed the face of our understanding of how widespread Covid-19 is. From fried chicken to gourmet food at some of the posh restaurants in SA, post lockdown cravings is all that Mzansi is gearing up to fix. The family of an Alexandra man who died after an alleged beating by soldiers has turned to the highest court for justice. A soldier died when the car he was travelling in overturned in Mpumalanga over the weekend, the military said. In a statement released on Tuesday, the military said Private Lebogang Jeffrey Kgatlhane died on Saturday. Enlightened Christian Gathering pastor Shepherd Bushiri, who faced a barrage of criticism for his call to his congregation to continue to send through their tithes during the Covid-19 lockdown, has gone on a public charm offensive. On Tuesday, Bushiri, who also courted controversy this week by charging followers R80 a month to follow his “virtual church” app during lockdown, joined the North West government in distributing food parcels around Rustenburg. According to his church, 100 of these food parcels came from the self-proclaimed prophet. There are 6,279 students who are still accommodated at different university campuses during the lockdown. This was revealed in a report released by the department of higher education & training on their plans for this academic year and their response to the Covid-19 pandemic, SowetanLIVE reports. The report was tabled to the portfolio committee on higher education, science and technology. The EFF says the re-opening of the economy should be based on scientific and epidemiological grounds. "The considered re-opening of the economy should only be based on scientific and epidemiological basis rather than the senseless rush for big business to continue exploiting our people... We will not agree with the reopening of the economy that will place our people in danger." In a statement the EFF welcomed President Cyril Ramaphosa's Covid-19 social and economic relief plans which were outlined on Tuesday evening.