The Covid-19 lockdown in Tsakane township, Brakpan, is not obvious at first sight. People walk or stand in groups with no masks or gloves. Young people play in the streets and the park. Warm food outlets in the township are busier than ever. Owners say business has gone up since the closure of restaurants at the local shopping mall. When police or the army patrol, people quickly disappear into their homes only to reappear when the authorities are out of sight. Teachers have expressed concern about an education department plan to hire celebrities to be part of a teaching programme, saying it would be difficult to explain mistakes to their students. Debate has been raging on social media about the reading programme which involves famous faces including Somizi, Pearl Modiade and Penny Lebyane. According to a statement released by the basic education department, the programme, called The Reading Club and an initiative of the non-profit Africa Teen Geeks, is a literacy campaign in which South African celebrities use the Zoom platform to support students with learning during the nationwide shutdown. SA’s wine industry, a main economic driver contributing R38bn to the fiscus, has been left confused and frustrated after the government this week reversed an earlier decision to allow exports during the lockdown. Last week, the government updated regulations to permit the transportation of wines and fresh produce through seaports and airports for export. The updated regulations meant the industry, which supports 300,000 jobs, would be allowed to export all finished wine, bottled and boxed. The University of Cape Town has refuted media reports that the academic programme would resume in September. UCT said it is in the process of finalising its online academic calendar to ensure that the 2020 academic year is successfully concluded. "The second term will start online on April 20 with an orientation week lasting until 25 April. Classes will start on 28 April." Cigarettes worth almost R1m were seized in Cape Town on Thursday, metro police said on Friday. Spokesperson Ruth Solomons said officers were conducting lockdown patrols on Thursday in Ravensmead when they saw a van with an “essential services” sticker. The number of coronavirus infections in Gauteng on Friday stood at 969 but the provincial health department said it was encouraging that the number of recoveries was significantly high too. Of the positive cases, 479 patients have recovered and subsequently tested negative, the provincial health department said on Friday. The Gauteng Liquor Forum says it will wait for a response from President Cyril Ramaphosa on Friday afternoon before revealing its next move. The forum, representing 20,000 small businesses in Gauteng, had asked Ramaphosa to relax restrictions on the sale and distribution of alcohol, which would allow its members to trade. It initially gave Ramaphosa a deadline of Wednesday to respond. Ramaphosa, however, asked for an extension until Friday to fully respond. Impala Platinum Mine's CEO of Rustenburg operations, Mark Munroe, is expected to appear in court on Friday for allegedly contravening lockdown regulations. Emma Townshend, from the mine’s corporate affairs department, confirmed that Munroe was expected to appear in the Bafokeng magistrate’s court after allegedly calling employees back to work. China denied Friday it had covered up the extent of its coronavirus outbreak, as it responded to growing questions from Western powers led by the United States. A foreign ministry spokesman acknowledged that the virus's rapid spread had contributed to undercounting that resulted in China raising its death toll earlier Friday, but he added "there has never been any concealment, and we'll never allow any concealment." Fast food chain Anat has resorted to crowdfunding in a bid to overcome the bitter financial squeeze served up by the coronavirus lockdown in SA. The owners are hoping good Samaritans and loyal customers can chip in to help the 30-year-old business and its staff survive long enough to reopen the business. In a bid to raise salaries for 600 staff employed at two bakeries, central kitchens and 25 franchised stores, the company owners have turned to crowdfunding. Prof Salim Abdool Karim, who has quickly become a household name in South Africa, is the government's chief adviser on Covid-19. He impressed the country on Easter Monday when he laid out the government's strategy to tackle the coronavirus. On Friday morning, he gave a webinar through the Centre for the Programme of Research in SA, where he is a scientific director. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula has reported 28 people died over the recent Easter weekend, a dramatic 82% reduction over the 162 killed last year. This corresponded with a more than 70% reduction in vehicle movement on the country's roads due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Any attempt to compare year-on-year figures was an exercise in futility as the material conditions this Easter were fundamentally different from a normal period in which traffic is able to mover freely, Mbalula said at a briefing at the Grasmere toll plaza on the N1 on Wednesday morning. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula says the number of traffic violations was low as a result of the nation-wide Covid-19 lockdown. He said 719 people were arrested for traffic violations, 144 vehicles were sent back to residents after attempting to travel elsewhere. "The total number of arrests for violation of road traffic laws stood at 719, while traffic law enforcement authorities manned 480 roadblocks. A total of 104,140 vehicles were stopped and checked at these roadblocks. The number of vehicles impounded was 236 with 171 vehicles discontinued due to unroadworthiness." "This is in contrast with the 128 crashes recorded over the same period in 2019, claiming 162 lives. Drivers constituted 42% of fatalities followed by pedestrians at 31% and passengers at 27%." He admitted that the 2020 Easter period was extraordinary as there was limited movement. "Despite the lockdown there were those allowed to travel." The Provincial breakdown of the 26 crashes is as follows: Thousands of boys have to wait until 2021 or summer to undergo the rite to manhood. This is because of a ban by the government - and traditional leaders are fuming. President Cyril Ramaphosa will on Friday make a decision on whether alcohol will continue to be banned during the second phase of the Covid-19 lockdown. The Gauteng Liquor Forum gave the president until Friday to make a decision on the total ban of alcohol, threatening to approach the  Constitutional Court  in a bid to have government allow for the trading of alcohol. Almost 79% of South Africans say their household income has been negatively impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a TransUnion survey. Since the first week of April, TransUnion has conducted weekly surveys on how SA consumers have been impacted by the lockdown. South Africans have been holding out hope that the BCG vaccine, given to newborn babies in the country at birth, provides a degree of protection against Covid-19. Recent studies, which looked at a BCG coverage map and compared it to the spread of the virus, found a correlation between vaccination and a slower spread of the virus. BCG is a tuberculosis vaccine. Hiring teachers to replace those who have Covid-19, rescheduling matric exams, “trimming” the curriculum and slashing the school day. These are some of the proposals in a draft document by the basic education department, which has been seen by Times Select. While doctors, nurses, and health care professionals at large are rightfully being lauded as heroes during the Covid-19 pandemic, there’s another set of less likely saviours facing the coronavirus front lines every day: disaster management teams, refuse truck drivers and lab workers. But the work of other essential workers — such as sanitation personnel, grocery store clerks and truck drivers — has largely gone unrecognised. Western Cape special events manager Keith Kleinhans says he has no choice but to work, but he did not believe many had spared a thought about the risks he and his colleagues face.