The 23-year-old man from Lyttelton, Centurion, who was arrested for allegedly contravening the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown regulations, was reprimanded and released on R1,500 bail. The man, whose name is known to TimesLIVE, was one of two people who allegedly posted a video of themselves travelling around Pretoria in apparent defiance of the lockdown laws. The Western Cape had recorded 490 Covid-19 infections by Tuesday — 15 higher than  Monday's total. Premier Alan Winde said 28 patients were in hospital and 10 in intensive care. Former higher education deputy minister Mduduzi Manana said communications minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams was picking up masks and protective gear from his home before she sat down for lunch. In a statement issued on Tuesday after public outrage over a picture showing Manana and Ndabeni-Abrahms having lunch and drinks on Sunday, Manana said the minister was picking up a donation from his foundation. A Durban man has become SA's 13th confirmed Covid-19 related death. Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize also confirmed that the number of Covid-19 cases in SA had risen to 1,749. The Western Cape government has rolled out mass screening and testing for Covid-19 in one of Cape Town’s key tourist areas. Health workers knocked on every door in the Bo-Kaap on Tuesday. This followed the first Covid-19 death in the suburb last week. Medical experts have warned that a widely-circulated WhatsApp message offering practical tips to people who have Covid-19, including eating high alkaline foods, may contain incorrect and misleading information. The message - the origins of which are not known -  offers tips on how to prepare for infection, including medication recommendations like paracetamol, Vicks and cough mixture. Dr Anuschka Coovadia,  a facilitator for the free helpline Doctors on Call, said the message contained a mix of "good and bad info" and she did not regard it as credible. The Splashy Fen music festival has been postponed to September. However, fans of the popular outdoor festival can still get a piece of the action this week without heading to the southern Drakensberg, where the event usually takes place every year. Attendees are even being encouraged to pitch tents in their bedrooms or lounges during the national lockdown. The efficacy of taxi sanitisation was on Tuesday questioned by some passengers and drivers in Atteridgeville, Pretoria, where government had dispatched teams to disinfect public transport vehicles. Koketso Serena, a taxi driver, said: “I still don’t feel safe as a driver because they are spraying the taxi and I am loading passengers inside. I don’t know who is sick and who is not sick. I don’t have a mask or gloves. They say they are out of stock.” Serena said the measures being taken protect the vehicle and not the driver. President Cyril Ramaphosa says he has summoned communications minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams to discuss a widely circulated social media post allegedly depicting her "flouting lockdown rules". Former higher education minister Mduduzi Manana shared an image of himself dining with Ndabeni-Abrahams and others on social media. “It was great to host a former colleague and dear sister Cde Stella Ndaben-Abrahams ... on her way back from executing critical and essential services required for the effective functioning of our country during the nationwide lockdown,” the post read. The post has since been taken down. For newlyweds Dumisani Zondi, 46, and Thabile Ngcobo, 36, their wedding day will forever be etched in their memories as a day to remember for all the wrong reasons. Zondi and his wife, together with the pastor who officiated their wedding and 50 of their guests, were arrested by police and soldiers on Sunday in Nseleni, northern KwaZulu-Natal, for violating the rules of lockdown. Two organisations have launched an urgent application before the Constitutional Court in a bid to open shops that sell baby clothing during the lockdown. The Tebeila Institute of Leadership, Education, Governance and Training and the African Institute for Human Rights and Constitutional Litigation want the application, filed on  Monday, to be heard on Wednesday. The respondent is President Cyril Ramaphosa. Calls for the list of "essential items" that can be bought under lockdown are growing on social media as the country enters day 12 of Covid-19 restrictions on Tuesday. During the 21-day lockdown, intended to reduce social interaction, people are allowed to shop for “essential items” only, such as food and hygiene products. But as the days roll on, many are finding themselves unable to purchase items they regard as essential, such as baby clothes, light bulbs and kettles. Hillcrest Primary School pupils are living every kid's dream as they have the power to make their principal shave his head. In an unusual move on Tuesday morning, the school challenged its pupils to post photographs of their activities during the lockdown on Facebook by 4pm. Just two hours into the challenge, the target of 100 photographs of different activities - from creative art projects to baking hot cross buns - was reached, and principal Raj Kemraj was preparing to shave his head. Two doctors who need safe accommodation during the Covid-19 pandemic — offered at no cost by Ubuntu Beds to health-care workers on the front lines — will be the first to check in on Tuesday in Johannesburg. Ubuntu Beds has more than 2,000 beds available, and by Monday night about 500 health-care workers from six provinces had applied for accommodation. “The numbers are always growing. Most of them want to move out of their homes to protect their loved ones from the risk of infection,” said Kim Whitaker, founder of Ubuntu Beds. “Many people commute back and forth to hospitals in public transport and this is a concern for patients.” The coronavirus pandemic has killed more than 75,000 people worldwide, the majority of them in Europe, since it emerged in China in December, according to a tally compiled by AFP from official sources at 0945 GMT on Tuesday. A total of 75,538 deaths have been recorded, including 53,928 in Europe, the continent worst hit by the virus. The R1bn Sukuma Relief Programme for businesses, started by the Rupert family and Remgro, has been closed temporarily after receiving R2.8bn in applications. On Monday Business Partners, the fund administrators, temporarily suspended applications just three days after it had launched the website in which small to mid-size enterprises (SMEs) and sole proprietors could apply for relief funding. Police minister Bheki Cele on Tuesday told police to instruct people not observing Covid-19 lockdown rules to go home, failing which “push them home” and if that failed, “they should arrest them”. He disclosed that 1,295 people have been arrested for violating lockdown conditions in the area of Embalenhle in Secunda, during a visit to the township to observe operations to restrict the spread of the coronavirus. He said people of that township had a “tendency of not listening”. “I hear them crying that cops and soldiers are brutal. Not listening to us is brutality,” Cele said. The EFF has commended government for its response in repatriating South Africans who are stuck in foreign countries and are unable to return as a result of Covid-19. "The rapid spread of Covid-19 pandemic around the world has seen most countries put into law travel restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19. As a result 1,471 South Africans are stranded in foreign countries. Out of the 1,471 who are stranded 723 are students. Some are stranded at airports with no accommodation and no food, thus the decisiveness of the government in this regard is commendable." Saftu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi has been discharged from hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. President Cyril Ramaphosa will on Tuesday visit the human settlements, water and sanitation command centre in Johannesburg where he will get feedback on the department's Covid-19 response plan. A group of engineering students at the University of the Witwatersrand are making face shields for healthcare workers to protect themselves against. "Netcare 911, one of the healthcare facilities currently experiencing a massive shortage of protective gear, called on the 3D printing community to assist with printing head rings for face shields for use by medical staff treating patients with COVID-19." "Teams at Wits from the Digital Incubator at the Tshimologong Precinct, the School of Mechanical, Industrial and Aeronautical Engineering (MIA) along with the Transnet Centre of Systems Engineering (TCSE) and the Transnet Matlafatšo Centre (TMC) heeded the call and used their engineering prowess to assist with a solution to the problem." The department of health has shared fitness techniques to help South Africans to stay fit while in lockdown. Africa's fight against the deadly Covid-19 was given yet another boost by Chinese billionaire businessman Jack Ma, who announced a second donation of health-care equipment to African states. This comes a few weeks after the Alibaba founder announced his foundation and the Alibaba Foundation would donate equipment to African countries to help them fight the Covid-19 pandemic which has claimed thousands of lives. Similar donations were made to Latin America, Asia and the US. As South African enters the 12th day of the nationwide lockdown aimed at containing the spread of Covid-19, local researchers have claimed progress in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The scientists — from the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) and the University of the Western Cape's South African National Bioinformatics Institute (Sanbi) — have sequenced the first severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) genome. President Cyril Ramaphosa has wished Britain's prime minister Boris Johnson a speedy recovery. "Wishing prime minister Boris Johnson a full and speedy recovery, and sending our support to him and to the people of the United Kingdom. We are going through a most challenging period but we shall overcome. Our thoughts are with him and his loved ones at this time." The World Health Organisation says World Health Day is about celebrating the selfless acts of health care practitioners. The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) is providing food parcels and vouchers to temporary disability grant recipients whose grants expired in March and who could not reapply for the renewal of the grants because of the national lockdown. “Sassa offices were closed since the lockdown and this posed a challenge for beneficiaries whose grants expired in March and were therefore unable to reapply at Sassa offices,” Sassa spokesperson Paseka Letsatsi said. A female official working at the East London Correctional Centre, in Westbank, has tested positive for Covid-19, the department of correctional services said late on Monday. Correctional services spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo told DispatchLIVE that all officials who have come into contact with the infected person have been identified and asked to isolate at home while awaiting testing. In the notorious Glebelands Hostel in KZN, social distancing does not apply - with good reason. Times Select takes you inside Glebelands as eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda makes an appearance to resolve the issue of "hand sanitisers".​ 