Policing oversight and social conflict experts have called for urgent dialogue and immediate deployment of community mediators to ease tensions between law enforcement and the communities they have to keep indoors during the national lockdown. Almost halfway through the 21-day lockdown, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) and the Military Ombudsman have received 12 and six complaints respectively against officers and soldiers ranging from murder, attempted murder and assault. South African public health care workers dispersed into the buzzing streets of Johannesburg's Yeoville neighbourhood on Friday as Africa's worst virus-hit country rolled out mass door-to-door testing for Covid-19. Armed with screening questionnaires and testing kits, medics and volunteers set up their testing station on the front porch of a block of flats in the gritty business neighbourhood. Singing sensation Pink revealed during the early hours of Saturday morning that she and her three-year-old son, Jameson, had made a full recovery after testing positive for Covid-19 two weeks ago. Pink released a lengthy statement on Twitter, in which she also put the lack of access to tests on blast. Trade union Numsa has expressed its solidarity with Nehawu, which has asked the labour court to compel the health department to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) for health workers amid the coronavirus pandemic. In court papers filed on Friday, public sector union Nehawu’s general secretary Zola Saphetha said their attempts to first engage with health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize over the shortage of protective equipment were ignored. Britain will not be able to relax its stringent lockdown rules until the end of May, a leading government adviser said on Saturday, warning that first the spread of coronavirus must slow and intense testing must be introduced. Neil Ferguson, a leading professor of mathematical biology at Imperial College London, said work was under way to establish how more relaxed rules could be introduced in time. Surging deaths in New York City and New Orleans showed that a wave of lethal coronavirus infections expected to overwhelm hospitals, even in relatively affluent, urban areas with extensive health care systems, has begun to crash down on the United States. Disinfectant was sprayed around shops in Johannesburg on Friday while shoppers practiced physical distancing. Two leading French doctors on Friday insisted they had been misunderstood after sparking a storm of criticism by discussing the idea of testing a vaccine for coronavirus in Africa. Although they later apologised for any offence caused if their comments had not been clear, former international and Ivory Coast football star Didier Drogba joined lawyers and a French anti-racism organisation in criticising the remarks made on Wednesday in a broadcast on the LCI channel. Zwelethu Mazibuko wants to tell South Africans taking strain during the lockdown or placed in medical isolation due to Covid-19: “You will survive this.” He should know. A horrific car accident shattered his body, and after a painstaking two-year recovery process he was placed in medical isolation for 24 weeks due to a deadly superbug he caught in the hospital. All international football matches scheduled for June were postponed on Friday following the first meeting of FIFA's coronavirus working group. It was also decided to hold discussions with confederations to draw up a revised schedule for the 2022 World Cup qualifiers which have been shelved. Serie A bosses said that doubts remain over when football can return to Italy as the country battles the coronavirus pandemic. All sport in Italy is suspended until at least April 13 as a result of Covid-19, which has killed nearly 15,000 people in the country. A tavern's decision to keep selling alcohol in defiance of Covid-19 lockdown restrictions cost it more than R500,000 on Friday. That was the value of the stock confiscated in Dunoon, Cape Town, after two men selling alcohol from a car led them to the tavern. Local musicians Danny K and Kabelo Mabalane, founders of Shout SA, have launched a campaign to help raise money to buy masks for health care workers and patients. Shout SA has partnered with SMD Technologies, a private company, to raise funds for the Shout4Masks campaign, which was launched on Friday. While many in Mzansi freak out over the spread of Covid-19 and worry about the 21-day lockdown imposed by the government to curb its spread, Bassie Kumalo is spreading hope. The businesswoman and former beauty queen has taken up the challenge by Tyler Perry to sing the gospel song He's Got The Whole World In His Hands, to spread hope across the globe.