Five police officers are in isolation after contracting Covid-19 in Gauteng, says provincial police commissioner Lt-Gen Ellias Mawela. He declined to name the police stations with confirmed cases, saying they would be stigmatised and people would not want to go there, despite measures to disinfect them. ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile has assured South Africans that the party would ensure that any loan from international financial institutions such as the World Bank and IMF will not compromise the country's national sovereignty. Mashatile was addressing an online dialogue of the Progressive Business Forum on Thursday — after an announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday that SA would approach international financial service providers for help during the Covid-19 pandemic. President Cyril Ramaphosa held what was described as a “very productive call” with US President Donald Trump on Thursday despite SA’s criticism of Trump’s stance on the World Health Organisation. The presidency said the two leaders discussed the impact of Covid-19 on their two countries in a call which began at 3.30pm. There are 318 new confirmed Covid-19 cases, with the total number of confirmed cases at 3,953, the health ministry confirmed on Thursday evening. “We are observing a steady increase in the number of positive cases. While this concerns us, we are also pleased that the intensified community screening and testing campaign is assisting in finding more Covid-19 positive patients. This allows us to take the necessary actions such as isolation, quarantine or hospitalisation if required,” the ministry said. President Cyril Ramaphosa has just concluded a meeting of the Covid-19 National Command Council where discussions dealt with a risk adjusted strategy to resume economic activity, his office said. The president is now meeting with leaders of political parties represented in Parliament for further consultations ahead of tonight’s address. Ten new deaths were reported, bringing the total number of Covid-19 related deaths to 75. "It is also notable that today the Western Cape has surpassed Gauteng’s confirmed cases and now has the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the country," the ministry added. Finance minister Tito Mboweni will make an announcement on Friday on the Covid-19 relief financing, as well as any possible approach for funding from international finance institutions, BusinessLIVE reported. Many questions have been raised about how the government will finance the R500bn stimulus package announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa earlier this week, and the minister is expected to address these. Angry community members protested outside Ntunjambili Hospital near KwaDukuza, north of Durban, on Thursday against the admission of Covid-19 patients to the facility. Police were called in and they dispersed the protesters using teargas. Health MEC in KwaZulu-Natal Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu said because of the low bed utilisation and patient headcount at Untunjambili Hospital, the department had decided to use the facility for the quarantining, isolation and treatment of patients who test positive. KwaZulu-Natal MEC for social development Nonhlanhla Khoza has pleaded with ward councillors to stop “playing dirty politics games” amid allegations that some were unfairly distributing food parcels during the lockdown. “We are receiving negative news about the behaviour of some councillors. The president has given us a mandate to feed South Africa and we can't be playing our dirty games over food. Covid-19 does not see politics, it affects everyone,” said Khoza. Khoza was making reference to allegations that councillors in some areas had given food only to people affiliated to a particular political party. The Competition Commission has referred Dis-Chem to the Competition Tribunal for inflating the prices of surgical masks — with profit margins doubling from 20% to 45%. The commission, which acts as investigator, says that members of the public complained to it about the prices of three different surgical mask packs, after March 28. Three more people have died of Covid-19 in the Western Cape, premier Alan Winde said on Thursday. They were women aged 62 and 63 and a 41-year-old man, and their deaths bring the provincial total to 25. By 5pm on Wednesday, 1,153 people had tested positive for the virus, Winde said, and 236 had recovered. DA leader John Steenhuisen is calling on President Cyril Ramaphosa to set aside R600m  to buy face masks for South Africans who can’t afford them. Steenhuisen said in a statement on Thursday that he estimated the country would need 120-million masks to give to 40-million people to minimise the spread of Covid-19 when the country begins its phased-in reopening after lockdown. A black market in coronavirus test kits is flourishing in Nigeria, spurred in part by negligible faith in the country's health system to defeat an emerging threat. Testing is a crucial weapon in combatting Covid-19. It not only identifies where the stealthy virus has invaded - it also helps to prevent frontline workers, in health care and the economy, from falling sick in turn. Every country is struggling to carry out sufficient testing, but in Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, the situation is dire. In the coronavirus pandemic, medical masks should be used only by high-risk health workers. Authorities have advised the public to rather use cloth masks. But how well do these masks protect us and our communities? Top actors in Cape Town are recording school set-works and other books and plays as a service to schoolchildren and arts lovers during the lockdown. The Baxter Theatre Centre in Rondebosch, which, like other theatres nationwide has “gone dark” during the Covid-19 pandemic, is making the recordings available to supporters and radio stations under the Baxter Radio banner. Many people were outraged that early Covid-19 patients in SA refused to self-isolate, but experts say criminalising the spread of the virus can slow the increase in testing. Safura Abdool Karim, a researcher at the School of Public Health at Wits University, said criminal law should not be used in a way that could “undermine efforts to promote testing and control the spread of the virus”. Doctors and nurses are among 28 health workers who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Gauteng, the provincial health department said on Thursday. Eleven health workers have recovered and most are back at work. The rest are being monitored. A University of Cape Town student who devised an elaborate plan to break into a liquor store and posted it on Facebook was granted bail on Thursday. Sihle Mnethe, 21, spent seven days behind bars after cops nabbed him following his controversial post. He made it as South Africans were running out of booze after the banning of liquor sales as part of the lockdown regulations aimed at preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus. Since the Solidarity Fund was launched just four weeks ago, it has approved R1.1bn in funding for health-care provision which will be needed to fight Covid-19 and has assisted 250,000 distressed families with food aid. Gloria Serobe, chairperson of the board, said so far R2.6bn has been pledged to the fund. Vast areas of the country with hardly any Covid-19 cases should be considered for lockdown exemptions. The proposal comes from the Centre of Excellence in Food Security at the University of the Western Cape, which said on Thursday there was a strong argument for a “place-based” approach to the lockdown which considered local and community factors. Millions of South Africans will tune in to watch president Cyril Ramaphosa address the nation on Thursday night, with clearer answers on the national lockdown and conditions around relaxation of some regulations expected. A draft proposal explaining a five-stage “alert-system” to ease lockdown regulations that was presented to cabinet on Monday has been leaked. Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko confirmed the authenticity of the document but said it was  “outdated” and had been prepared as “early input into the development of risk-adjusted approach to resuming economic activity”. A man who casually walked around in a defence force jacket in Zandspruit, Johannesburg, has been arrested. Johannesburg metro police spokesperson Wayne Minnaar said the man was arrested during a Covid-19 operation in the township on Wednesday. “He walked past law enforcement dressed in a SANDF jacket. When questioned, he told officers it was given to him.” Many of the lawbreakers bust at various roadblocks in Gauteng during the lockdown had liquor, drugs and unlicensed firearms, provincial police said on Thursday. Gauteng police commissioner Lt-Gen Elias Mawela told TimesLIVE that more than 15,000 arrests had been made in the province during lockdown. He was speaking on the sidelines of an operation to crack down on non-compliance with lockdown regulations in Soweto. He was accompanied by community safety MEC Faith Mazibuko. Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) has donated personal protective equipment (PPE) to Kalafong hospital in Atteridgeville in response to the increasing need to fight Covid-19. Various entities at the university have been manufacturing face shields and other PPE to help medical staff in Tshwane. TUT spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said the institution was also investigating ways to increase the capacity to produce more PPE to support local hospitals. With a week to go in the 35-day lockdown in SA, internationally accredited addictions counsellor Gareth Carter says people with moderate to severe alcoholism may experience withdrawal and need medical attention that the state and private sectors are not prepared for. Carter, founder of the WeDoRecover psychiatric clinic, alcohol and addiction rehab facility based in SA and the UK, spoke to TimesLIVE about the physical and psychological effects the liquor ban could have on addicted individuals who are not receiving medical help. Infectious disease specialist Prof Salim Abdool Karim, who chairs the government's advisory committee on Covid-19, has become a household name for being the man in the know about the coronavirus. In this interview, Abdool Karim explains why SA’s lockdown has been so important, what recommendations his committee has put to the government to begin lifting it, and what progress is being made on treatments and vaccines. A South African nurse who left the country 18 years ago has died of Covid-19 while on duty in the UK. Josephine Manini Peter, 55, from Tsakane, Ekurhuleni, died at the weekend. She lived in west London and was sent as an agency nurse to work at Southport hospital, where she got exposed to the coronavirus while on duty. Her friend Cynthia Charles, who has started crowdfunding for her family, said Peter had been planning a return to SA. A soldier has penned an open letter reminding South Africans that troops have a vital role to play and are not "uneducated idiots". Pretoria-based Lerato Afrika posted on the #ImStaying Facebook page that she had witnessed women running away from abusers and parents recklessly sending their children out to the shops during the Covid-19 lockdown. A butchery at the Baragwanath taxi rank in Soweto was shut down on Thursday after the discovery of allegedly rotten meat, expired sauces and zero-compliance on hygienic standards. The owner was arrested. The conditions at the butchery - which before the inspection had been packed to capacity, breaking the lockdown regulations - were given away by a foul smell that could be detected from afar. Furious with the Eastern Cape government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in Nelson Mandela Bay, health minister Zweli Mkhize has taken charge by sending a senior director to lead the tracing, screening and testing teams in the city. He also read the riot act to health MEC Sindiswa Gomba and her administrative staff in a meeting behind closed doors in Port Elizabeth, according to three insiders. This followed a presentation by Dr John Black, head of the infectious diseases and HIV unit at Livingstone hospital, who painted a bleak picture of a department that is hopelessly ill-prepared to deal with the virus. Health workers at Durban's Addington Hospital have tested positive for Covid-19, the Democratic Nursing Union of SA (Denosa) said on Thursday. The hospital has been identified as a state facility for the treatment of patients with Covid-19. Mandla Shabangu, Denosa provincial secretary, told TimesLIVE that five health workers had tested positive at the hospital. The world-famous song Pata Pata, a South African dance hit from 1967, is being re-released with new lyrics to spread information about coronavirus to vulnerable communities. Meaning "touch touch" in Xhosa, "Pata Pata" was written by Grammy-winning singer Miriam Makeba who named it after a dance move popular in Johannesburg at the time. The new version sung by Beninese artist Angelique Kidjo includes lyrics such as, "We need to keep our hands clean so 'no-Pata Pata'... Don't touch your face, keep distance please and 'no-Pata Pata'". Soldiers will now move beyond just enforcing the lockdown regulations on the streets, with the additional personnel set to screen people at roadblocks, set up field hospitals and deliver water to communities. President Cyril Ramaphosa deployed an additional 73,180 defence force members on Tuesday to support government departments and to control borders to combat the spread of the coronavirus in all nine provinces until the end of June. Informal traders hawking wares - without permits to operate during the lockdown - were deterred by soldiers in Soweto on Thursday morning, as an estimated 100 members of the defence force joined police on patrol in SA's biggest township. Driving to Maponya Mall, where the soldiers assembled to finalise the logistics of the intensive lockdown patrol, street vendors could be seen preparing to set up their stalls. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula has set the record straight after a controversial video saw him being slammed for his actions. The viral video shows Mbalula asking for a motorist to be arrested after he allegedly lied about buying food and did not have a permit. Despite a deluge of information, South Africans are a little clueless about how Covid-19 works. While they claim to know “a great deal”, this poll tells a very different story. In a bid to ensure their businesses survive the lockdown crunch, owners are exploring different ways to keep afloat and their employees paid. One of these companies is Roman's Pizza. The company has started selling vouchers for pizzas, offering customers discounts once the lockdown is lifted. Former City of Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba says has challenged President Cyril Ramaphosa to be transparent with South Africans when he outlines government's plans to gradually reopen the country's economy on Thursday. "In a time of great uncertainty, the president has a responsibility to confide in the people of South Africa and be open and transparent about the actions of government tonight." President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to announce government's plans to gradually ease lockdown regulations. "On Thursday, I will address the nation on the measures that will be taken beyond the nationwide lockdown to reopen the economy." SA is preparing for unprecedented rationing of critical care beds and ventilators – and the attendant ethical nightmares. The question is, who gets this equipment and who doesn’t? A leaked document on the lockdown lends credence to the stark reality that crippling restrictions are going nowhere. And while the presidency insists the document is outdated, sources say it was presented to cabinet on Monday. High school teacher Pabalelo Mphahlele is worried about her pupils in Limpopo. “Most of my learners don’t have access to computers or smartphones, which makes it hard to learn via e-learning,” she told TimesLIVE. “Another thing is I work in the rural areas of Sekhukhune, where ... you have to go outside the gate and climb the rocks just to make a call. The network is a problem, which is why e-learning won't work for learners from my school.”