Duduzane Zuma has the country in a frenzy. Jacob Zuma's favourite son has just shaken the dust off his appearance at the Zondo commission into state capture and now  seems to think he is the new rock star of the ANC rally. Is he interested in politics, or is this just part of his elaborate plan to exonerate himself? We wouldn't quite call him a rock star. He and his “brothers”, as he likes to refer to the Gupta brothers, are at the centre of the state capture net that nearly pulled the country to the bottom of the ocean. Six witnesses have so far implicated him as a Gupta lackey at the Zondo commission. It was, in fact, allegations against him and the Guptas made by former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas that put state capture on the agenda and led  to the  commission being established in the first place. Duduzane shot through the ranks at  breakneck pace in the Gupta business empire. At 26, he was made director of Sahara and then in no time had lined up more directorships. Near the end of the road, just before the state capture bomb finally exploded, he was allegedly a billionaire and in charge of several Gupta enterprises — from media companies to mining. He was allegedly earning about R300,000 a month from director's fees only — allegedly even more than  the Guptas were making individually. Read all about it in this week's edition of Afrikaans digital weekly Vrye Weekblad. Duduzane's comeback after his appearance in front of Zondo and his revealing BBC interview reached a climax at the ANC's 108th birthday bash in Kimberley earlier in January. The 36-year-old arrived in a fancy suit, bodyguards in tow, and social media was lit. What is going on here? It might be really simple. There is no great plot to turn him into an ANC leader or to involve him in ANC politics. The man is after all as politically savvy as a teenager and has never been active in the ANC. He has always been all about the business. Duduzane Zuma has donned his best political suit to gain popular support to wear as armour against future prosecution. That's all. THE WEEK IN POLITICS | Max du Preez looks at AfriForum's #DieWêreldMoetWeet campaign, the astounding arrogance of the state capture gang and the madness of Floyd Shivambu. FROM ZERO TO NOTHING | What can go wrong if you drive at 308km/h on a public road? Well, lots, writes Willem Kempen. THE MADNESS WON'T CONTINUE | The head clinic is pretty much the same as real life, just more intensive and non-stop, writes Hannes Loubser after his time there. FREE TO READ — LET'S TALK ABOUT SEX | The latest struggle to get the curriculum for sex ed in schools ready has more or less reached a climax, writes Rozanne Els. DEMOCRACY IS ILL | A new study has confirmed that we have lost our faith in democracy during the Zuma years, writes Adri Kotzé.