The Hawks are investigating the possibility that an international syndicate is responsible for the sharp increase in the theft of petroleum from Transnet's 3,800km long pipeline system. This pipeline system, a national key point, is of critical importance to the economy, as it supplies petroleum and crude oil to the entire country. But just like what happened with taxpayers' possessions at other SOEs, crime syndicates have realised that the army and the police don't have the resources needed to protect the pipes. Since 2019, more than 10 instances of theft of millions of rand worth of petroleum from the pipelines have been reported. Taxpayers only became aware of this theft when 40 homes in Alberton on the East Rand had to be temporarily evacuated, when a fire broke out at the pipe plant next door to them during a failed robbery. This specific line runs between Durban and Johannesburg. Read all about it in this week's edition of Afrikaans digital weekly Vrye Weekblad. Thieves have targeted this specific line several times since 2014. In the previous financial year, seven incidents were reported. In total, more than 500 million litres of petroleum were stolen from the national system, but not a single person has been caught or charged in connection with the theft. Transnet chairperson Dr Popo Molefe is deeply concerned about the increase in theft from the lines. Transnet has started using sophisticated technologies and drones in an effort to protect the lines. Several people have been arrested over the past two weeks in connection with the theft of petroleum, but the masterminds behind the syndicates are still MIA. THE WEEK IN POLITICS | Max du Preez covers land reform, rich buggers in parliament and really expensive serviettes. CLEVER, BUT I DON'T NEED IT | The cleverest, cutest and most unnecessary new tech devices are showcased at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada, annually. And just like every other year, Willem Kempen wishes he was there. FREE TO READ — FAB DEPUTY MOTHER | With her #vukauzenzele tweet every morning, Prof Mamokgethi Phakeng inspires us to get up and make something of ourselves. Annelize Visser chatted to our Deputy Mother. FREE TO READ — PODCAST | In our first podcast, Max du Preez and Riaan Wolmarans talk about the kind of beast Vrye Weekblad is, the nature of the media and what awaits us in 2020. CAN MARK SAVE US? | Mark Boucher is competitive, feisty and ready to show he can reach the same heights as coach that he reached as player, writes Luke Alfred.