SA has been hooked on Lockdown for the past four seasons. The big news now is that Lockdown season 5 is streaming exclusively on Showmax from January 30. As season 5 picks up, Deborah is under pressure from the department of correctional services, after one death too many at the prison. Arch-rivals Mazet and Tyson are still running the prison yard together, for now. And Monde is trying to make things right with Vicky (Lauren Jenae) while worrying about her sister Katlego (Natasha Thahane), who’s been transferred to Kgotsong Asylum. Sophie Lichaba joins the cast this season as the head nurse at Kgotsong. We can’t wait to see where her character goes. Learn how to watch Lockdown online, with the help of Deborah, Thabazimbi’s evil prison governor.  You can also watch the first four episodes of Lockdown season 1 on YouTube. To stream all seasons of Lockdown, all you need to do is sign up for Showmax. If it’s your first time trying Showmax, there is a 14-day free trial, so you can watch Lockdown online free for two weeks. Download the mobile app for iOS or Android and follow the same steps. To save data, you can also download movies and series to watch on your phone later. Here’s how to download Lockdown >>> Yes! If you’re a DStv Premium subscriber, you get Showmax thrown in for free. If you’re a Compact or Compact Plus subscriber, you can sign up for Showmax for R49 a month. There’s plenty more to watch on Showmax, especially if you love South African stories. The River comes express to Showmax from 1Magic daily, and season 3 starts on January 27. What’s next for the Dlamini and Dikana families? If you love soapies, also check out The Queen, Isithembiso and Afrikaans favourites like Binnelanders, Getroud Met Rugby and Arendsvlei. On the lighter side, hilarious new sitcom Black Tax is coming express from BET. Showmax also has the best of SA reality. Binge both seasons of The Real Housewives of Johannesburg, watch all of Being Bonang, and enjoy the antics of the ultimate diva in Kwa Mam’Mkhize. Plus, watch top international shows, from favourite series like Grey’s Anatomy and Game of Thrones to blockbuster movies like Aquaman. This article was paid for by Showmax.