Health minister Zweli Mkhize announced on Wednesday that SA has entered a second wave of Covid-19 infections. He was giving an update on the state of Covid-19 in SA, as infections  continue to climb. SA has registered 828,598  Covid-19 cases since March, and 22,574 deaths. Nelson Mandela Bay in the Eastern Cape was recently declared a hotspot by President Cyril Ramaphosa, who  announced the introduction of stricter measures there  to help mitigate the further spread of the virus. Here are five key quotes from the minister's update. Mkhize said a spike in infections in four provinces was the main cause of  the  second wave. “It is important for us to highlight that four provinces, being the Western Cape, Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng are the key drivers of this new wave. We looked at the number of tests done, the positivity rate and numbers of people who are admitted at  fatalities. These show an indication of an increase.” Mkhize said the increases in the last week were in the Eastern Cape and Western Cape but have since spread to four other provinces. “Up to the past week or so, we had an increase in the Eastern Cape and in the Western Cape. There were specific districts which were  affected. Now we are indicating that the numbers are increasing to involve more provinces. As of today, the increases are shown in about six of the provinces.” The minister said the Western Cape and the Eastern Cape had more new cases than other provinces. The Free State, Limpopo, Mpumalanga and the North West each account for just 1% of the new infections, while the Northern Cape accounts for less than 1%. “The Western Cape has  30% of the positive cases today, followed by the Eastern Cape, which is at 24%, and KwaZulu-Natal, which is 23%, and Gauteng province at 17%.” Mkhize said the peak age is now between 15 and 19. This is believed to be chiefly from events such as the Rage Festival  attended by teenagers in Ballito, KZN recently. The health department declared the event a Covid-19 “superspreader”. “This is a new issue and this is worrying. It is believed to be due to a large number of parties involving young people drinking alcohol with no adherence to non-pharmaceutical interventions, wearing no masks, and social distancing and hand sanitising not taking place.” The minister said the festive season should be enjoyed responsibly and with caution to prevent further spread of the coronavirus. “Yes, the festive season is a time for us to relax and enjoy with our families; we now need to understand that we have a responsibility to enjoy with various restraints. “If your enjoyment will lead to more people being infected and being admitted to hospital, it's not a responsible way to enjoy ourselves.”