Mzansi, it’s time to get festive because KFC has a big reason to celebrate. Next year KFC is celebrating 50 years of sharing their Original Recipe, southern hospitality and those feel-good moments with its customers. Since 1971, the popular chicken brand has served up millions of meals to fans around the country. Loved not only for its high-quality standards, KFC also offers its customers delicious-tasting meals at great prices, making it affordable for all South Africans. KFC is so amped to mark its milestone that celebrations have already kicked off this December. And as a crazy year deserves a crazy celebration, KFC is going big by offering customers 50% off selected products every day until December 20 2020 to help make sure December is still a festive season of sharing when its fans need it most. To celebrate its 50th anniversary year, for the first time ever KFC also went 50/50 with talented local illustrator Russell Abrahams (aka Yay Abe) to design a collection of limited-edition Birthday Buckets. Inspired by KFC’s heritage and the culture of Mzansi, Yay Abe added his bold, bright and playful illustration style to the iconic KFC buckets — which always bring people together — to create a range of collectable buckets that will bring a little more colour and a lot more flare to festive tables this December. “Taking a global icon such as the KFC buckets and adorning them with illustrations that depict the richness and beauty of our country’s diverse cultures, is a very special project,” said Suhayl Limbada, KFC SA marketing director. “Working with Yay Abe, a local talent and a true original, to tell our original heritage story through our iconic buckets — is the perfect ode to KFC’s history in SA.” There are three collectable Birthday Buckets in the KFC x Yay Abe range: The nine-piece Heritage Bucket is designed for, and dedicated to, the people of KFC — from the founder Colonel Saunders to the KFC employees and the fans who have welcomed KFC into their homes over the past 50 years. The 15-piece Goodness Bucket captures everything fans love about KFC, from its “finger lickin’ good” meals and secret recipe, to its 11-year-old Add Hope programme that provides nutritious meals to more than 150,000 children daily. The 21-piece Sharing Bucket embodies the special cultural norm of family and friends gathering around a table to enjoy a great meal and good company together. This article was paid for by KFC.