The venue that is set to host the Boxing Day Test between the Proteas and Sri Lanka‚ SuperSport Park in Centurion‚ has forced the cancellation of an ongoing domestic match after producing a positive Covid-19 result. A top-of-the-table 4-Day Domestic Series match between the Titans and the Dolphins was called off on Monday following a positive result from tests conducted on the previous day. The match started on Sunday with both teams welcoming back their Proteas players but the fixture is now in limbo. Police shut down nine illegal liquor outlets and arrested more than 1,000 people in Gauteng at the weekend. The safer festive season operation was carried out in Soshanguve and Rietgat by provincial police commissioner Lt-Gen Elias Mawela and Gauteng community safety MEC Faith Mazibuko. International relations and co-operation minister Naledi Pandor has cautioned South Africans travelling to countries where Covid-19 is surging that they could be stranded if international flights are cancelled. Pandor was speaking during Monday's briefing on international developments for 2020. She said more than 30,000 South Africans stranded across the globe during the initial wave of the pandemic had to be repatriated, using more than 350 flights, between the level 5 lockdown in March and the time when international travel was allowed again under level 1 in SA. The Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle, has paid tribute to the “quiet heroes” of the Covid-19 pandemic who ensured their communities' “most basic needs were met”. The duchess made these remarks during a surprise appearance during the CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute special, which aired on Sunday. CNN Heroes honours ordinary people committed to make the world a better place and is usually broadcast in front of a live audience, but this year, due to Covid-19, was pre-recorded. President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to hold a “family meeting” on Monday evening, with speculation rife about whether he will reintroduce stricter lockdown regulations. Ramaphosa is set to address the nation about the government's response to the second wave of Covid-19 infections in SA. The presidency said the address comes after the national coronavirus command council (NCCC), the president’s co-ordinating council (PCC) and a special sitting of the cabinet held meetings on Sunday. A popular Durban hangout spot has come under fire after a video, showing dozens of patrons dancing without any social distancing, emerged online at the weekend. The video, which was taken at Eyadini Lounge in Umlazi, south of Durban, was posted on Twitter on Sunday, showing the patrons forming a human train and snaking through the packed venue. Other patrons are drinking and smoking while recording the entertainment. British business secretary Alok Sharma said on Monday he was confident food supply chains would hold up in the event that no post-Brexit trade deal with the EU was secured and said there was no need for consumers to stockpile. "I'm very confident that actually the supply chains will still be in place," he told Sky News. "I would say to everyone - do your normal shopping as you would do and I think we'll find we're going to be absolutely fine." Italy is considering more stringent nationwide coronavirus restrictions during the Christmas and New Year holidays as concerns rise over a possible spike in infections in January. After some restrictions put in place last month were eased, crowds of shoppers flocked to many city centres on Sunday, as Italy reported 484 coronavirus-related deaths. On Saturday, Italy surpassed Britain as the European country with the worst death toll. Covid-19 second wave: 5 things you need to know from Zweli Mkhize's update on the pandemic Subscribe for free: iono.fm | Spotify | Apple Podcasts | Pocket Casts | Player.fm Shortly before he succumbed from Covid-19 related symptoms, US actor Tommy “Tiny” Lister spoke out about taking the vaccine. The 62-year-old actor died on Thursday after experiencing Covid-19 symptoms. In his last interview just days before his death, conducted by media personality Brandon Jays and shared with DailyMailTV, Lister shared details about how he was looking forward to getting the vaccine. Novartis said a late-stage clinical trial of ruxolitinib on top of standard therapy showed no significant reduction in severe complications of Covid-19, including death, respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation or admission to the intensive care unit. The RUXCOVID trial also did not show relevant benefit for other endpoints including mortality rate by day 29 and time to recovery, the Swiss drugmaker said on Monday. It was another setback as Novartis tries to repurpose drugs to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Eastern Cape health MEC Sindiswa Gomba has tested positive for Covid-19. Provincial health department spokesperson Siyanda Manana said Gomba's Covid-19 results came back on Sunday. “The MEC is at home in isolation as per the protocols for Covid-19,” said Manana. Mumtaaz "Taz" Emeran, the Wits University medical student who received more than R471,000 in donations from South Africans to help her cover her debt, says she is honoured to be one of the medical doctors who will serve SA during the global Covid-19 pandemic. Last week, Emeran witnessed history when South Africans helped her clear her student debt in 24 hours after she posted a video on Instagram asking for help. She had been informed by the university that she would not graduate unless she settled the debt. She explained that she had funded her studies for the first three years before a sponsor offered to help her pay her fees. The sponsor allegedly never paid, leaving her hundreds of thousands of rand in arrears. On Sunday, health minister Zweli Mkhize said: “Regrettably, 170 more deaths related to Covid-19 have been reported: Eastern Cape 94, Free State 11, Gauteng three, KwaZulu-Natal four, Northern Cape four and Western Cape 54. This brings the total deaths to 23,276.” The DA has opposed plans to close the country's beaches, saying the closure will potentially increase the spread of Covid-19. Eswatini Prime Minister Ambrose Dlamini, who tested positive for COVID-19 four weeks ago, has died at age 52 after being hospitalised in neighbouring South Africa, the tiny absolute monarchy's government said late on Sunday.