Moscow began distributing the Sputnik V Covid-19 shot via 70 clinics on Saturday to the most exposed groups, marking Russia's first large-scale vaccination against the disease, the city's coronavirus task force said. The Russian-made vaccine will first be made available to doctors and other medical workers, teachers and social workers because they run the highest risk of exposure to the disease. President Vladimir Putin has ordered a nationwide voluntary vaccination programme to begin next week. He said Russia will have produced 2 million vaccine doses within the next few days. The head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Kirill Dmitriev, said in an interview with the BBC on Friday that Russia expects to give the vaccine to about 2 million people this month. - Reuters Germany's highest court upheld on Saturday a ban on a demonstration in the northern city of Bremen planned by opponents of lockdown measures aimed at containing the spread of the coronavirus. Lower courts had already denied permission for the protest, planned for Saturday afternoon, at which 20,000 demonstrators were due to convene in the city centre of Bremen. Last month, German police unleashed water cannon and pepper spray in an effort to scatter thousands of protesters in Berlin angry about coronavirus restrictions. Although most Germans accept the latest "lockdown light" to curb the spread of the coronavirus in a second wave, critics say the amendment endangers citizens’ civil rights. - Reuters Iran's total death toll from coronavirus surpassed 50,000 on Saturday with 321 new fatalities recorded in the past 24 hours, the health ministry said, as the number of cases in the Middle East's worst-affected country reached 1,028,986. Ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari told state TV that 12,181 people had been infected with the coronavirus since Friday. The death toll now stands at 50,016. - Reuters More than 65.58 million people have been reported to be infected by the coronavirus globally and 1,517,624​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. - Reuters There will be cricket after all at Boland Park in Paarl on Sunday after the Proteas returned negative Covid-19 tests. The entire Proteas team underwent the tests after a set of scheduled tests on Thursday revealed a positive Covid-19 test that led to the postponement of what should have been the first ODI. Russia reported a record high of 28,782 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, including 7,993 in Moscow, taking the national total to 2,431,731 since the pandemic began. Authorities confirmed 508 deaths related to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, pushing the official national death toll to 42,684. - Reuters The mayor of San Francisco on Friday ordered new lockdowns and business restrictions across the Bay Area in the face of the Covid-19 surge, as political leaders nationwide ramp up pressure on Americans to stay home until vaccines can be distributed. The new measures announced by Mayor London Breed, a first-term Democrat, apply across five Bay Area counties and are among the harshest of any major US city, closing all personal services, outdoor dining and most public gatherings. “What we are seeing in our city, our region, our state and our country is a virus that is taking over,” Breed, 46, said in announcing the new clamp down. Mexico's health ministry on Friday reported 12,127 new confirmed cases of coronavirus infection and 690 additional fatalities, bringing the total in the country to 1,156,770 cases and 108,863 deaths. The government says the real number of infected people is likely significantly higher than the confirmed cases. - Reuters Health minister Zweli Mkhize and Western Cape health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo at Cubana in Green Point on Friday night to assess Covid-19 health protocol compliance. Mainland China reported 17 new Covid-19 cases on December 4, unchanged from a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Saturday. The National Health Commission said 15 of the new cases were imported infections. It reported 12 new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed cases, also unchanged from a day earlier. The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in China stands at 86,601. The death toll remained unchanged at 4,634. - Reuters SA recorded nearly 5,000 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize said the 4,932 new cases took the national total of confirmed cases to 805,804. South Korea reported 583 new coronavirus infections on Saturday, down from the previous day's 629, which was the highest since a first wave peaked in February and early March. Cases have been found largely in the capital Seoul and surrounding regions, where over half of the country's 52 million people live. Of the new cases, Seoul alone reported 235 infections. The spike prompted Seoul to announce unprecedented curfews starting on Saturday, shuttering most establishments and shops at 9pm and cutting back public transportation operations by 30% in the evenings. - Reuters