SIU received 20 complaints relating to health sector corruption The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) says it has dealt with 20 allegations of serious maladministration, fraud and corruption relating to the heath sector. The Health Sector Anti-Corruption Forum (HSACF), which received the complaints, said 13 of the allegations have been assessed and formally converted into investigations. “In addition, four allegations of maladministration, fraud and corruption in the public health sector have been assessed by the forum and the SIU has submitted motivations for proclamations in respect of these matters to the presidency for their approval. Western Cape has biggest one-day leap in active Covid-19 cases The Western Cape experienced its biggest one-day leap in active Covid-19 cases on Friday. The number of active cases (total reported infections minus recoveries and deaths) increased by 1,712, from 10,706 on Thursday to 12,418. While the numerical increase was the biggest since the provincial outbreak began on March 10, the daily percentage increase (15.99%) was larger on April 21, when active cases grew from 832 to 968 (16.35%). We did not miss Covid-19 vaccine payment deadline: Tito Mboweni Finance minister Tito Mboweni says SA has not missed the deadline to pay the R500m required for it to be part of the COVAX global Covid-19 vaccine distribution scheme. The facility would give SA early access to a batch of vaccines required to protect front-line health-care workers and the public from the deadly coronavirus. Mboweni told parliament on Friday that government had until December 15 to make the payment required to join the vaccine scheme. Microsoft founder Bill Gates has included South African professors Salim Abdool Karim and his wife Quarraisha on his heroes list for their role in the fight against HIV/Aids and Covid-19. “Drawing on their experiences from HIV and TB, they are helping guide the Covid-19 response in South Africa and around the world. It is a shame that they haven’t been able to focus on HIV/Aids, but on the other hand, it is a reminder of how fighting old diseases like HIV helps the world prepare for new ones like Covid-19,” said Gates in his blog. The couple are internationally renowned for their work at the Centre for the Aids Programme of Research in South Africa (Caprisa). Covid-19 has struck again‚ but scalping an even bigger victim this time as the first one-day international (ODI) between South Africa and England that was supposed to take place at Newlands on Friday has been postponed. The postponement came about after a Proteas player tested positive for Covid-19 after the teams’ last round of scheduled testing performed on Thursday ahead of the ODIs. The positive test is the third one CSA have encountered in the bio-bubble after two players had tested positive at the start of tour. The decision to ban outdoor events which attract thousands of revellers every year was taken by the local coronavirus command council in Buffalo City on Tuesday, metro authorities confirmed on Thursday. Britain hopes for millions of doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine by the end of the year but the final figure will depend on how quickly it can be manufactured, Britain's business minister Alok Sharma said on Friday. “We are starting initially with 800,000 and then let's see where we end up by the end of the year in terms of the numbers that we acquire. That will depend on the manufacturing,” Sharma said on Sky News. “I hope we will have some millions by the end of this year but of course what we also always said is that the vast majority of this vaccination programme will take place in the new year.” Nelson Mandela Bay has become the first metro in SA to be declared an official coronavirus hotspot. This was announced on Thursday by President Cyril Ramaphosa during his televised address to the nation, where here introduced a 10pm curfew and a limit for alcohol sales to four days a week. Ramaphosa also prohibited alcohol consumption in public spaces, such as beaches and parks, saying it was to prevent large social gatherings. British food banks are seeing more families needing their support as the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic forces struggling people to seek help, charities and volunteers say. Lockdowns and other measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus have forced businesses to close or lay off staff. The rise in those out of work has resulted in more people turning to food banks, which provide emergency food supplies to families in need. "I was working part-time as a cleaner for evenings, and then when Covid started, we had to quit because everything was closed and our offices, they're not opening until 2021 because people can work from home," said Vilma Tunylaite, 40, queuing at a food bank in southwest London. Co-operative governance & traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has gazetted new regulations that will apply to Nelson Mandela Bay, which has been declared a Covid-19 hotspot. This follows President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address on Thursday night in which he introduced stricter lockdown rules for the area. The government gazette, published on Thursday night, spells out additional rules pertaining to the sale of alcohol, gatherings and Covid-19 protocols in the city. Social media was filled with memes and messages reacting to President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement of stricter lockdown measures in Nelson Mandela Bay, Eastern Cape, on Thursday. The city became the first to be declared a Covid-19 hotspot, after a resurgence of the virus in the area. The DA opposes any further restrictions on liquor sales and extensions to the curfew, saying they  will only inflict further harm on SA's already ailing economy. On Thursday, president Cyril Ramaphosa announced tighter localised restrictions, including further restrictions on the sale of alcohol, in Nelson Mandela Bay, Eastern Cape to curb the spread of Covid-19. “With effect from midnight tonight, the hours of the curfew will be 10pm to 4am. This means that, except for emergencies, no person may be outside their place of residency outside these times. "The sale of alcohol from retail outlets will only be permitted between 10am and 6pm from Monday to Thursday.