Large clinical trials have shown that the vaccines by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna are about 95% effective against the novel coronavirus. Those trials, however, were done before the UK variant started its explosive growth. Health experts have warned that SA will experience high levels of Covid-19 infections if people continue to ignore safety protocols. “With the new variant and the festive season, we anticipate that there will be high levels of transmission unless we change our behaviour and adopt non-pharmaceutical interventions of mask wearing and social distancing because that is the only way we will break this rise in infections,” said health department director-general Dr Anban Pillay. Researchers warn that the British variant is so contagious that new control measures, including closing down schools and universities, may be necessary. The latest statistics on Covid-19 cases in SA have left South Africans shocked, with some calling on the government to bring back the hard lockdown. Health minister Zweli Mkhize announced on Wednesday that SA registered more than 14,000 new cases, the highest number of daily infections of the pandemic so far. Many on social media have welcomed the North Gauteng High Court's ruling against lobby group AfriForum's request to have the Covid-19 regulations regarding beach closures declared unconstitutional. Inside a special Covid-19 wing of the intensive care unit at Cook Children’s Medical Center, a team of doctors and nurses focuses on the virus’s youngest and sickest victims. Davis, a mother of three who also has had to alter her personal routine, such as immediately showering when she gets home, sees hope in the months ahead. Vaccines are now approved for adults but not children under 16. The Indian drugmaker also has non-exclusive rights to sell the shot — which is currently undergoing an early-stage trial — in certain other emerging markets, the Hyderabad-based company said in an exchange filing. The government has been facing growing public pressure over their Covid-19 vaccine procurement plans as the country struggled to contain a third wave of the pandemic, reporting its second-highest daily tally of cases on Wednesday. Australia's most populous city has been virtually isolated from the rest of the country with state border closures or mandatory 14-day quarantine for Sydney arrivals. "Please limit your mobility," New South Wales (NSW) state Premier Gladys Berejiklian told reporters in Sydney on Thursday. Taiwan's tourism department on Wednesday cancelled an annual New Year celebration at the northeastern tip of the island, after a report of the first locally transmitted Covid-19 case since April 12. “Our state is ground zero for a surge in Covid-19 and we need Tennesseans to (do) their part,” Governor Bill Lee said on Twitter, urging residents to wear face masks and gather only with members of their own household over Christmas. “There is now no evidence that the B117 strain is circulating in the community,” Singapore's health ministry said late on Wednesday, referring to the new, potentially more infectious UK strain. Singapore has been conducting viral genomic sequencing for confirmed Covid-19 cases who arrived from Europe recently. Jesse Martinez, 37, allegedly struck the 82-year-old Hispanic victim with an oxygen tank. Martinez became angry after the elderly man started to pray, according to a statement from Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. The victim was also ill with the coronavirus, and was being treated along with Martinez in a two-person hospital room. More than 78.23 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 1,723,054​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. Reuters Taiwan's tourism department on Wednesday cancelled an annual New Year celebration at the northeastern tip of the island, after a report of the first locally transmitted Covid-19 case since April 12. The event, to watch the sun rise on the first day of the year, was due to take place in the coastal town of Fulong.Other New Year's Eve celebrations, including fireworks in Taipei, are still taking place, though with masks mandated for attendees. Taiwan has so far reported a total of 777 cases - mostly imported - and seven deaths. Around 130 people remain in hospital for treatment. Reuters