Second Covid-19 wave bigger than first in Western Cape, with metro worst hit Khayelitsha was once the epicentre of the Covid-19 crisis in the Cape metro, but during the second wave, it is one of only three districts that has fewer cases than during the first wave. While Klipfontein and Mitchells Plain are also better off than during the first wave, every other district in Cape Town has reached or exceeded the numbers seen in the first wave. The Democratic Nursing Organisation of SA (Denosa) has called for the immediate withdrawal of at least 12 different brands of KN95 face masks. This comes after a recent study found the masks, worn by thousands of health-care workers as protection against Covid-19, were unsafe. Sunday Times Daily reported the KN95 masks – mainly made in China – flooded into SA amid a pandemic-related worldwide shortage of the highly regulated N95 masks. Burials in the Indonesian capital were 61% higher in the first 10 months of 2020 than in the past five years, according to a new study that could suggest Indonesia's real coronavirus death toll is far higher than official data shows. The study by the Eijkman-Oxford Clinical Research Unit, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, analysed government records that showed there were more than 16,000 burials between January and October in Jakarta than the average for 2015-19 – about a half of which were suspected or diagnosed as due to Covid-19. The Eijkman-Oxford study, led by biostatistician Dr. Iqbal Elyazar noted that "burial records indicated substantially increased mortality associated with the onset of and ongoing Covid-19 epidemic in Jakarta". Large gatherings and events have come under fire after it was revealed to be a leading cause of the country's second wave of Covid-19 infections. Over the past few weeks, large gatherings dubbed “superspreaders” have been making the headlines for breaking Covid-19 regulations, including people not wearing masks and not keep social distancing rules. In his address on Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa warned that such reckless behaviour over the festive season could be disastrous for the country. The Restaurant Association of SA (Rasa) says the longer curfew imposed over the festive season poses significant challenges if establishments must close by 10pm. President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday announced that restaurants would not be allowed to operate beyond 10pm, and extended the curfew from 11pm to 4am. Rasa spokesperson Wendy Alberts told Jacaranda FM on Tuesday they were not in agreement with the new restrictions. As the country continues to battle with the Covid-19 pandemic and the increase of daily cases, the Beer Association of SA (Basa) has rolled out “no-nonsense” interventions to help limit the spread of the virus. On Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced new alcohol regulations. Alcohol sales at retail outlets are restricted to Mondays to Thursdays between 10am and 6pm, with immediate effect. “On-site consumption of alcohol at licensed establishments is not permitted after 10pm. No consumption of alcohol is permitted in public spaces such as parks and beaches,” said Ramaphosa. Minister of home affairs Aaron Motsoaledi says the health department has been alerted to fake Covid-19 certificates being produced at ports of entry for international travel. Speaking on 702, Motsoaledi said the certificates include fake negative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test results, which travellers must produce before departure. Motsoaledi said the department was also aware of people selling these fake certificates to desperate travellers. December 15 2020 - 11:41 FULL ADDRESS | Ramaphosa clamps down on gatherings and alcohol sales as he tightens curfew Doctors can administer South Korean pharmaceutical maker Celltrion Inc's candidate Covid-19 antibody treatment to patients with life-threatening conditions, health authorities said on Tuesday. The Ministry of Food and Drug Safety approved CT-P59 under its patient treatment scheme on Friday, its website showed. Under the scheme, patients with life-threatening conditions and with no other means of treatment can receive drugs still undergoing clinical trials, the ministry said. Amended lockdown regulations published on Tuesday make provision for people and businesses breaking the Covid-19 rules to be fined or spend up to six months in jail. Co-operative governance & traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma signed the amended regulations which are published in the Government Gazette. The regulations provide more details on restrictions announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa in his address to the nation on Monday evening. The coming holiday season will be unlike any other for Eastern Cape residents as beaches will remain closed to the public and alcohol sales will be severely curtailed over the Christmas and New Year period. Despite repeated warnings, many South Africans have failed to adhere to Covid-19 regulations culminating in President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement on Monday night of tough measures to mitigate the effect of the virus' second wave. These include a 11pm to 4am curfew that will also apply to Christmas and New Year. Restaurants and taverns will, however, be allowed to remain open to 10pm. SA has weighed in on President Cyril Ramaphosa's address on Covid-19 developments in the country. On Monday, Ramaphosa detailed the country's fight against the pandemic, announcing the closure of beaches in the Eastern Cape, Garden Route, and on specific days in KwaZulu-Natal. Music festivals and live performances at beaches have also been prohibited with immediate effect. President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday conveyed his condolences to the government and people of Eswatini after the death of prime minister Ambrose Mandvulo Dlamini. Dlamini had tested positive for Covid-19 four weeks ago and was moved to SA from the neighbouring kingdom for treatment on December 1. “Today, all South Africans and compatriots across our continent bow our heads in sadness at the passing of a leader who took pride in leading and representing his nation. The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 14,432 to 1,351,510, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Tuesday. The reported death toll rose by 500 to 22,475, the tally showed. Reuters India reported 22,065 new coronavirus infections, taking its total to 9.9 million, data from the health ministry showed on Tuesday, making it the lowest daily rise since July 4, according to a Reuters tally. India has recorded the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the world, after the United States, but daily infections have declined since hitting a peak in September. Deaths rose by 354, the ministry said, taking the total to 143,709. Reuters Pupils who have already lost many months of schooling because of the Covid-19 pandemic are being dealt a second blow, as donor funding shifts away from literacy initiatives at a time when schools need these most. Ramaphosa said that he has discussed this all with his cabinet and this is how they are trying to lower infections during the festive season.