As SA enters into a second wave of Covid-19 infections, Western Cape premier Alan Winde has urged residents to avoid large social gatherings and year-end events to curb further spread of the virus. The Western Cape is among four provinces which account for most of the infections in the country. As of Wednesday, the province had a total of 144,419 Covid-19 infections, according to the health ministry. Winde said among the districts which had seen a spike in Covid-19 infections were Knysna, Protea Place, Heidelberg, Ladismith and Albertina. Belarus will close its land borders to its own citizens later this month to try to combat Covid-19, the government said late on Wednesday, a move one opposition news channel likened to the imposition of a new Soviet-style iron curtain. Belarus has been rocked by protests since an Aug. 9 presidential election in which incumbent Alexander Lukashenko said victory. His opponents say the vote was rigged and want him to quit. A government order, published at midnight — 2100 GMT on Wednesday — said the new measures, which include a ban on Belarusians travelling unless their trip is related to work or study, would come into force 10 days from the moment of publication. Masks being used by thousands of SA health workers to protect them from Covid-19 infection have failed safety tests. None of the 12 brands of KN95 masks tested at the University of Cape Town offers the protection provided by the “gold standard” N95 mask, according to the results of a study published on Wednesday in the SA Medical Journal. KN95 masks - mainly made in China - have flooded into SA amid a pandemic-related worldwide shortage of the highly regulated N95 masks. Health minister Zweli Mkhize announced on Wednesday that SA has entered a second wave of Covid-19 infections. He was giving an update on the state of Covid-19 in SA, as infections continue to climb. SA has registered 828,598 Covid-19 cases since March, and 22,574 deaths. Nelson Mandela Bay in the Eastern Cape was recently declared a hotspot by President Cyril Ramaphosa, who announced the introduction of stricter measures there to help mitigate the further spread of the virus. The US on Wednesday crossed an ominous new threshold of more than 3,200 lives lost to Covid-19 in a single day while public health officials stepped up preparations for a vaccine campaign of historic scope ahead of final regulatory review. Steady movement towards a vaccine rollout on the eve of a critical review by leading US medical experts comes as Covid-19 caseloads surged alarmingly higher, straining health care systems in some pandemic hot spots to the breaking point. Intensive care units at hundreds of hospitals in cities and rural communities across the country were reported to be at or near capacity, US department of health and Human Services data showed. Planning to hit the road and go away this festive season? Here's how you can get your much-needed rest and stay safe. Insurance company Dialdirect has compiled a long list of potentially life-saving tips you should not leave home without. In a recent online survey the insurer conducted, 75% of holidaymakers said that they would be travelling to their holiday destinations by car. The Rage Festival continues to draw public reaction as 1,300 teens from Gauteng were urged to quarantine on Tuesday after attending the event, which has been identified as a Covid-19 “superspreader” by the health ministry. One of the attendees, Laura, not her real name, told TimesLIVE that she knew that attending the event could be risky, but she went ahead because it hadn't been outlawed by the government. The teenager, who is self-isolating in her bedroom, said about 30 of her friends had also tested positive for Covid-19. South Africans have reacted with shock, concern and a dash of humour to the announcement of a second wave of Covid-19 infections in SA. Health minister Zweli Mkhize confirmed on Wednesday that the country is officially in a second wave, with 6,079 new cases reported in the latest 24-hour cycle. He said that the Western Cape, Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng were “key drivers of the new wave” and that more caution should be taken to combat the virus.