More than 100 Covid-19 deaths recorded in 24 hours The Western Cape and the Eastern Cape accounted for half of the country's new Covid-19 deaths, the health ministry said on Tuesday. Of the 109 deaths recorded in the past 24 hours, 36 were in the Western Cape and 27 in the Eastern Cape — a combined 63 fatalities. Events banned, facilities shut as Western Cape's Covid-19 infections soar All planned events in the Western Cape's Garden Route region have been banned until further notice as Covid-19 infections run riot. This as the province's disaster centre addressing Covid-19 says “drastic action is required” — action which it is “not afraid to take”. National tourism body cautions against lockdown rumours The last thing people who have booked their holidays would like to hear is they cannot travel because of rumours about tightened lockdown restrictions. Tshifhiwa Tshivhengwa, CEO of the Tourism Business Council of SA (TBCSA), made this comment on Tuesday as the National Coronavirus Command Council met, reportedly to consider restrictions on the sale and consumption of alcohol in areas considered to be hotspots across the country. SA Medical Association calls for 'urgent' intervention in Eastern Cape The SA Medical Association (Sama) has criticised the Eastern Cape health department for its “severe” lack of leadership as coronavirus cases in the province continue to climb. According to stats released by the health department on Monday, the Eastern Cape accounted for 1,217 of the new 2,302 Covid-19 infections confirmed across the country between Sunday and Monday. The figures showed the province accounted for 52.8% of new infections since Sunday, and accounted for more than half the deaths related to Covid-19 in the same period. Since Sunday, 58 deaths have been confirmed. Of these, 32 were in the Eastern Cape (55%). Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech are in a tight race to launch their Covid-19 vaccines in Europe after both applied for emergency EU approval on Tuesday, though there was uncertainty over whether a rollout could begin this year. The applications to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) came a day after Moderna sought emergency use for its shot in the United States and more than a week after Pfizer and BioNTech did the same. US drugmaker Pfizer and its German development partner BioNTech said their vaccine could be launched in the European Union as early as this month. —Reuters Health minister Zweli Mkhize has expressed concern about the sector's ability to cope with a resurgence in Covid-19 infections, saying heath-care workers will again feel the pressure. In a department of health podcast this week, Mkhize said he feared staff in the Eastern Cape were more likely to feel the pressure due to the challenges that arise from the historical underfunding of the department in the province. He said with the resurgence, the numbers of Covid-19 cases were higher than during the surge in July and August. A peak season 14-night cruise on the MSC Orchestra, scheduled to leave Durban on December 26 heading to Port Louis in Mauritius, is the latest MSC cruise to be cancelled. MSC Cruises told passengers on  Monday that it had not received approval from all relevant authorities in SA, Mozambique, Madagascar, Seychelles and Mauritius, in spite of actively engaging them for many months. “We had presented a comprehensive [Covid-19] health and safety protocol that enabled us to restart sailing in Europe in August,” the company said. “But without approval we have no option but to cancel the cruise.” Nelson Mandela Bay is considering several restrictions to fight the resurgence of Covid-19 infections, including limitations on how and when alcohol may be sold. This is according to the Bay's acting mayor, Thsonono Buyeye, who told Cape Talk officials have presented proposed restrictions to health minister Zweli Mkhize. Western Cape premier Alan Winde says the province is investigating whether a “blunt instrument” like a “mini lockdown” is what's needed to control the possible resurgence of Covid-19. This comes after the province has been experiencing a major growth of new Covid-19 cases in recent weeks. Many of these new cases are concentrated in hotspot areas such as Garden Route and the Cape Metro. Lewis Hamilton will miss the Sakhir Formula One Grand Prix after testing positive for Covid-19, the sport's governing body FIA said. The Briton, who wrapped up a record-equalling seventh world title last month, was isolating according to local health guidelines in Bahrain, the FIA said. "Apart from mild symptoms, he is otherwise fit and well," his Mercedes team said. World Aids Day this year finds us still deep amid another pandemic — Covid-19. The highly infectious novel coronavirus has swept across the world, devastating health systems and laying waste to economies as governments introduced drastic measures to contain the spread. Not since the HIV/Aids pandemic of the 1990s have countries faced such a common health threat. This explains why UNAIDS has selected the theme “Global Solidarity, Shared Responsibility” for this year’s World Aids Day. About 20,000 vehicles a day are expected to move between Gauteng and the Western Cape during the festive season, with another 15,000 heading from Gauteng to the Eastern Cape. Throw in the anywhere between 20,000 and 30,000 vehicles that travel between Gauteng and Limpopo a day, and it's clear to see why these Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) statistics have SA's health officials worried about rapid transmission of Covid-19 during the Christmas holiday period. Health experts have warned that the country might see a huge spike in the number of Covid-19 infections with the increase in interprovincial travel, as families reunite and holidaymakers hit the road.