The holiday season is round the corner, which calls for quality family time, time off, letting your hair down and enjoying your favourite beverage or two, responsibly. It’s also the season for gift shopping, and spreading the cheer and holiday spirit by putting a smile on your loved ones’ faces. You can conveniently access your favourite stores and buy virtually anything you want from the comfort of your home via mobile shopping apps. Created with your shopping experience and convenience in mind, Huawei’s curated list of apps will come in handy this holiday season when the retail space gets busy and you’d prefer not to venture into shopping malls. Huawei AppGallery has a variety of mobile shopping apps to help ensure you have a quick and contactless shopping experience without having to leave the comfort and safety of your home. This way, you have more time to create meaningful memories with friends and family. Shop for anything you can imagine on Takealot Make someone smile this holiday season by giving them a thoughtful gift from Takealot’s online mobile shopping app where you can shop for anything from a PS5 or that bigger TV your gran has been dreaming about. With Takealot, you can get your orders sent anywhere in SA. Pop bottles from the Bottles app What says celebrating the holidays better than food, drink and family? Bottles, a liquor and groceries delivery app, which also forms part of PnP, is a convenient app to get essentials delivered to your home. With lockdown restrictions on alcohol sales finally cooling down, now is the time to stock up on your favourite beverages (and eats) for your family braais. Whether you are getting a bottle of fancy gin or craving a good old 2016 bottle of merlot, Bottles provides you with the comfort and convenience of shopping online, hassle-free. Bottles delivers in most areas in Joburg, Cape Town, Pretoria, Durban, Bloemfontein and Port Elizabeth. OneCart brings you groceries on demand As always, food and drinks are the order of the festive season. Those cooking and baking skills you’ve been honing during the lockdown, can finally be put to good use when hosting family and friends. Whatever grand recipes you have in mind to excite your guests’ palates, you can make it happen with all the perfect ingredients delivered from any supermarket straight to your doorstep. Shop for fresh local produce, organics, meat, dairy, eggs, drinks, snacks, bulk items, fresh flowers and more with the OneCart app. And stock up on pharmaceutical supplies and doggie treats at Dis-Chem, Clicks and Mr Pet. There's no need to drive around searching everywhere to tick off your grocery list; OneCart does the running around for you. Plus, you can get your shopping done in as little as an hour. Order in with UberEats Sometimes during the holiday season, you don’t want to lift a finger in the kitchen and just want to enjoy food from your favourite restaurants and fast-food outlets instead. With the UberEats app, get exactly what you’re craving delivered at Uber speed. These mobile shopping apps and more, that bring cheer, convenience and excitement to your holiday celebrations, can be found on Huawei AppGallery. So beat the queues and shop until you drop in the safety and comfort of your home this festive season. This article was paid for by Huawei Mobile Services.