As scores around the country went into self-isolation and quarantine when the Covid-19 pandemic first hit SA, many will go down in history as heroes who decided to put their masks on, go out and make a positive difference by bringing hope and help to those in need. The new year is only a few hours away but millions will celebrate New Year's Eve differently because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the regulations in place. It has been nine months since SA was hit by the virus, with the number of cumulative infections having surpassed 1 million over the weekend. Police minister Bheki Cele's call for everybody to be in bed by 9pm on New Year's Eve has left many doing a double-take. On Wednesday, Cele got tongues wagging with his claim that there will be no New Year’s Eve celebrations this year under the adjusted level 3 lockdown. Speaking during an SA Police Service (SAPS) parade in KwaMashu, Durban, he declared that this year there will be “no December 31" and that people should be in bed by 9pm. By now almost every South African knows somebody who died because of Covid-19; often, it is someone from your family or a colleague from work or friend of many years. The vaccine, says the president, will only be available in the second quarter of 2021 and even if so, priority groups (front line health workers, the aged) and the logistics of distribution mean that getting that shot in the arm might only happen towards the end of the next calendar year, or later. How on earth do we survive until then? Fortunately, there are some vital cues from our behaviour in 2020 that will determine who stands and who falls because of the pandemic threat. A private hospital has set up a 10-bed holding area in the undercover parking lot to cope with an increasing number of people seeking medical care in Pretoria. Life Eugene Marais Hospital has bolstered capacity in a bid to limit any delays in treating patients arriving at its emergency unit. Life health care regional manager Johan Holder explained that the holding area was set up to provide patients with the care they required until they could be accommodated inside the hospital or transferred to a suitable facility.