How can an arts-based idea address a pressing social challenge creatively? How can creative thinking influence, affect, or simply make us more aware of societal conditions in our world today? How can art start a conversation or ignite a vigorous debate? How can art present a workable solution or show a way to make an impact in the age of the Anthropocene? All of the above are positive intentions towards making social impact count, making social impact central, and making social impact the driving force in arts-based practices in SA. The Rupert Art Foundation and the Rupert Museum in Stellenbosch have launched the Social Impact Arts Prize 2020, calling for great creative ideas, driven by precisely these questions. The awarded project will be installed in the Karoo town of Graaff-Reinet in the Eastern Cape. Here are the finalists: From March 7 2020 the finalists’ projects will be exhibited in the Rupert Museum, while the awarded projects will be announced at a free gala event on Thursday, March 12 2020. The event is open to the public and anyone is welcome to attend. The finalists’ work will also be exhibited in Graaff-Reinet at the Jan Rupert Art Centre from April 2020. So if you live in the district you will get a chance to see all the entries, which a panel of esteemed international judges voted as finalists. Keep watching the media for the announcement of the official opening of the finished project in July 2020. Then take a road trip or a book a weekend visit to the fourth-oldest town in SA, and be inspired by the friendly people and the breathtaking beauty of mother nature in and around the Valley of Desolation. Walk the streets and not only revel in the architecture of the town, but also take pictures of the trailblazing art leading the way. Imagine what your creativity can do, develop your big ideas and start making a change in your own life. Visit https://socialimpactartsprize.org/ for more information. Follow the conversation on Facebook and Instagram using the hashtag #socialimpactartsprize This article was paid for by the Rupert Art Foundation.