A fight over raucous parties featuring blaring music, revving car engines and sexual escapades has landed reality star Andile Mpisane in hot water with his neighbour. Umhlanga attorney Janine Archer, who runs a guesthouse next to Mpisane’s home, has laid a criminal charge against the 18-year-old son of divorced celebrity couple Sbu Mpisane and Shauwn Mkhize, after he allegedly chased her for about 3km and repeatedly blocked her path with his car. The high-speed car chase last Sunday was allegedly preceded by him trying to force open her car door and picking up rocks to throw at her while she was parked outside his mansion in Sandringham Court, Umhlanga Ridge. Archer told the Sunday Times that she had had problems with Mpisane for almost two years. “The noise started approximately mid-2018. It got worse and worse. Screaming, shouting, blaring music, beating of drums, car engines revving and wheels spinning, doing doughnuts in the cul-de-sac outside the B&B and even a sex act in full view of my staff and guests. “My manager had to deal with the ongoing noise, complaints from guests, sleepless nights and music so loud she couldn’t hear people on the phone in her office. “She repeatedly phoned the metro police and begged them to intervene. The police either arrived and achieved nothing or never arrived at all.” Archer said she had attempted on several occasions to contact Mpisane’s mother, Mkhize, and had even gone to her home in Addison Drive, La Lucia. She had left her number but never received a call. In the meantime her business was being criticised on social media as guests complained about the “noise and parties” from the house next door. “I decided I had no choice but to take legal action and make a high court application for an interdict,” said Archer. She said that last Sunday on her way to her property, she stopped outside the Mpisane house and took some pictures for use in the application to show the proximity of the two properties and the number of cars parked in the driveway and outside. “As I took the pictures, a security guard, a Mr Shezi, intervened and told me to stop. I then saw Andile on the upper-level balcony. He screamed at me and the next thing he was at my car trying to open the door. “He banged on the window. I started to drive off and he shouted at me, calling me a f***ing bitch and demanding my phone.” She said that in her rearview mirror she saw him pick up some rocks but the security guard appeared to stop him. When she drove away, she was followed by two black cars, she said. Mpisane was driving a Nissan GT and a bodyguard a Mercedes-Benz. She said she could not see registration plates on either vehicle. She said what followed was a “terrifying” 3km  chase as she had to drive over verges and through oncoming traffic to get away. Eventually they gave up. “I was absolutely terrified,” Archer said. “I went straight to Durban North police station and made a statement.” Archer met with an advocate on Thursday to launch civil proceedings. Mpisane didn’t respond to queries from the Sunday Times. Mkhize said she was aware of the complaints and she had tried to get in touch with Archer. “She has not responded to my efforts of trying to set up a meeting to get this resolved, I even wrote her an e-mail to which she has not bothered to respond to. I was hoping that this matter would not get to the point where it is now and I would be able to understand what the issues are so we can resolve them as adults,” she said. Mkhize said she had not yet been notified of any criminal case. Police spokesperson Capt Nqobile Gwala confirmed that a case of intimidation is being investigated.