Which of these designer outfits is your love most likely to wear? The answer will give you a clue as to the type of perfume she's likely to adore, plus the sort of lingerie, shoes and earrings she'd be thrilled to receive this Valentine's Day. Then she'll adore Carolina Herrera Confidential Sandal Ruby (100ml for R3,625). When experiencing this scent for the first time, you're bound to be swept off your feet. A scent that combines black pepper, cinnamon, tuberose and sandalwood, its luxurious, polished quality - like its gem's namesake - is the perfect complement to this sophisticated woman. She might also love: Then she'll adore Berdoues Collection Grand Crus Peng Lai (100ml for R1,595). This woman is likely to be found sporting laid-back elegance and pairing a satin slip dress with a pair of sandals or sneakers. Intriguing as she is playful, fresh oriental-floral scents with notes of osmanthus and an alluring tonka bean undertone is her fragrance of choice. She might also love: Then she'll adore Dior Joy EDP Intense (90ml for R2,765). She has a propensity for spontaneity; jumping into swimming pools at house parties or taking an unplanned road trip. The one in the group who is always full of joie de vivre, this woman is an equal match for the radiant neroli note combined with a rose-jasmine heart and sandalwood base in this scent. She might also love: Then she'll adore Dolce & Gabbana The Only One 2 EDP (100ml for R2,200) With a fruity opening, a sensual violet and coffee heart, and tonka bean at the base, this charming scent is perfect for the captivating woman who has an old-school charm and glamour that draws everyone in. She might also love: Then she'll adore Guerlain Intense EDP (100ml for R2,655). This may give the impression of being a typical scent containing vanilla at the heart, but you will soon realise that it's not as sweet as you think. With an aromatic woodiness that makes you want to longer linger, expect its wearer to be sensual with a touch of mystery. She might also love: Then she'll adore Lancome Idole EDP (75ml for R1,590). Some days she's one of the boys and some days she prefers being a little girly. But one thing she won't be is stuck in a box. Give her a fragrance that is as vocal and empowered as she is, with explosive notes of rose, bergamot, pear and jasmine that sit harmoniously together. She might also love: Then she'll adore Chanel Chance Eau Tendre EDP (100ml for R2,350). Soft, ultra-feminine and striking in her simplicity, this woman can't help but light up a room. After dazzling you with conversation, expect her to leave a lasting impression with her floral-fruity scent trailing through the room long after she's gone. She might also love: Then she'll adore Gucci Bloom Ambrosia Di Fiori EDP (100ml for R2,365). If you're trying to let this woman be anything but the centre of attention - try again. With a taste for the unusual, she enjoys a scent that she can make her signature. The unique combination of Rangoon creeper, jasmine bud, tuberose and orris will have her in full bloom. She might also love: