Miss Universe Zozibini Tunzi is back home for the first time since bagging the coveted crown and the amount of excitement in the air is palpable, not only for Mzansi but for Zozi too. The fabulous Miss Universe told TshisaLIVE that being back home was like a big breath of fresh air. “There’s no place like home. No place like South Africa. I feel like this is where I gather my strength. So being home is like having a renewed spirit in me.” The model, who won Miss SA in 2019 before relinquishing the title to wear her Miss Universe crown, reflected on the moment that literally changed her life. “My life has changed drastically. I mean it was like a 360-degree switch literally between seconds. One moment I was Miss South Africa, next thing Steve (Harvey) is screaming out that South Africa is the next Miss Universe. From that moment everything changed. My life will literally never be the same again. It’s not even a year thing. It was also a change for South Africans, for Africans and the world celebrated that moment." Zozi, whose social media following blew up into the million within days of being Miss Universe, has documented and shared her transition into her prestigious role on social media. It is also through the same platforms that she lets her people know just how much she missed them when she was in New York. “The diversity of South Africans is one of the most beautiful things I think I’ve ever experienced; people’s stories, the humility that you come across when you meet the people, the culture in South Africa is so rich and it is one of the things I miss when I am away. New York in itself is diverse but there’s something in the African soil that speaks to me so I miss that. That cultures that Ubuntu,” Zozi told TshisaLIVE. The Tsolo-born beauty queen has also done some amazing things and met some awesome people including the ED of the United Nations Women. She also opened up about the awesome campaigns she’s busy with, including Woolies’ upcoming Catch the Feels campaign.