Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko has come out in defence of her husband, whose company allegedly received a R125m tender to supply personal protective equipment (PPE) to the Gauteng health department. She denied allegations of corruption on Thursday, but acknowledged that King Madzikane Thandisizwe Diko II had received “commitment letters” which were never fulfilled. This follows weekend reports that her husband scored in a “tender bonanza”. Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has announced 13,104 new confirmed cases of Covid-19, and has again pleaded with South Africans to do their bit in containing the spread of the virus. Adding these to the overall figures provided on Wednesday night, it means there are now 408,052 confirmed cases of the virus in SA. “There is no conscription for this war against Covid-19 — only consciousness. Every man, every woman, every child must be alive to the realities of Covid-19. We must understand that we are the product of our choices. Gauteng premier David Makhura has made a full recovery from Covid-19, his office said on Thursday. Makhura, who has completed 14 days of self-isolation, thanked public health-care staff in Johannesburg region A - which spans Diepsloot, Kya Sands, Dainfern, Midrand, Lanseria, Fourways and Ivory Park - for giving him the care he required. He did not name the institution. “During my battle with Covid-19, I came face to face with the dedication, bravery, professionalism and fears of thousands of public health-care workers who are sacrificing their own lives in order to save more lives. I wish to convey my deep appreciation and gratitude to you all,” he said. President Cyril Ramaphosa will address the nation at 8pm on Thursday with an update on developments in South Africa’s risk-adjusted strategy to manage the spread of Covid-19. “The president’s address follows a number of meetings of the cabinet and the national coronavirus command council,” the presidency said in a statement. The address will be broadcast live on television, radio and streamed live on online platforms. Scientists have been wondering why SA’s case fatality rates for Covid-19 are lower than those of its global counterparts, but now a major question is being asked: are our mortality statistics even accurate? With the economy being reopened and scores of people returning to work during the coronavirus surge, an imperative question is whether one can be compensated for contracting Covid-19 at the office. The department of employment & labour issued a directive in a gazette published on Thursday to clarify the position of the Compensation Fund regarding compensation claims for workplace-acquired Covid-19. “All employees, regardless of occupation, are entitled to make a claim for compensation in the event that they contract Covid-19 at the workplace,” according to the gazette. The KwaZulu-Natal department of health has spent R3.2bn for additional ICU staff, doctors, nurses and tracing teams in its response to Covid-19. The total estimated Covid-19 response expenditure for the provincial health department amounts to R8.2bn, the provincial treasury announced on Thursday. As the country waits with bated breath for the government's announcement on the status of schools on Thursday, the department of basic education has read the riot act to teachers who refuse to report for duty. Gauteng finance MEC Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko has presented a budget to the legislature which reprioritised money to help the provincial government respond to the Covid-19 pandemic. Nkomo-Ralehoko’s adjusted 2020/2021 budget increased by R4bn from the R142.4bn announced in March to R146.4bn. Funds were reprioritised by the provincial treasury to avail more money for health, education and social development which desperately need more funding for the fight against Covid-19 in the province. The health insurance industry should prepare for an increase in mental health expenses over the next two years, according to new research on mental health in the workplace during the coronavirus pandemic. Suspension of childhood immunisation in SA during the lockdown could have detrimental effects and result in thousands of young children dying from preventable infections such as diarrhoea, measles and pneumonia, a new study has cautioned. Researchers from the London School of Tropical Medicine have estimated that as many as 702,000 children, and more than 18,000 in SA, could die before they're five as a result of the temporary suspension of immunisation programmes during lockdown. Barely a day after proclaiming her recovery, DA leadership hopeful Mbali Ntuli on Thursday announced that she was back in hospital due to Covid-19. “Covid is bizarre. I'm back in hospital today after feeling extreme pain in my chest from last night. Doc says my one lung sounds softer, has ordered a chest x-ray put me on a drip. I feel fine except for feeling like there's a giant pulsating rock in my chest making it hard to move,” Ntuli tweeted. Drinking alcohol will kill the coronavirus. It is OK to share face masks. Africans cannot get Covid-19. The pandemic is not even real. These are some of the coronavirus myths that a team of 20 Zimbabwean youth have been busting online since the country's lockdown began in late March, using social media and radio shows to reach an estimated 100,000 people to date. DA leadership hopeful Mbali Ntuli has called on the party to cancel its plans to hold an elective congress online and for members to insist that branch meetings be halted. According to Ntuli, the online event would not afford many the chance to have “difficult” conversations due to technical difficulties, and holding branch meetings, known as annual general meetings (AGM), would put the party's members at risk and leave some out of the process. For one young funeral home assistant in Florida, his social life has been dead -- his main human interactions are with deceased coronavirus victims at his workplace. But he doesn't regret his isolation. The pandemic is "bigger than we are," said Bradley Georges, 26, an assistant at the Van Orsdel funeral home in Miami. Though the question of whether the Eastern Cape health department should be placed under administration has come up in parliament, health minister Zweli Mkhize says he is “not yet there”. The government has backtracked on an “incorrect” tweet regarding the ban on cigarettes and alcohol sales during the lockdown. On Wednesday, the government said the ban on the sale of alcohol and cigarettes would remain in place throughout the lockdown period. “The ban on the sale of alcohol and cigarettes will remain in place throughout the lockdown period. The purpose is to save lives and protect the health and wellbeing of our people,” it said on its official Twitter account. The now-deleted tweet caused concern over the government’s confusing messages and resulted in an outrage online. Covid-19 is giving rise to prolonged grief disorder for families who have lost loved ones. Without closure, psychologists warn, losing a loved one in these times means a whole new level of heartbreak. Shoppers are right: food has become more expensive. But there are exceptions, which savvy or cash-strapped consumers can capitalise on. The entire 16-member management of a Free State nursing school has tested positive for Covid-19. The management of the Free State Nursing School has, according to the provincial health department, been sent home for self-isolation. The campus community was informed and contact tracing was initiated. When great-grandmother Pat Fullard, 90, tested positive for Covid-19, she was afraid she would die. Taxis, buses and other public transport vehicles must keep their windows — on both sides — at least 5cm open in an effort to reduce the spread of Covid-19. Even before they compared notes, doctors in several countries began noticing a strange phenomenon during the Covid-19 lockdown: far fewer premature babies were being born. From Denmark to Australia to Ireland, and possibly SA too, neonatal ICU beds have sat empty while the ICUs for other patients have been filling up. Just because there’s a pandemic and you get infected doesn’t make you immune to other forms of bad luck — like a tree falling through your roof and having no electricity for nearly three days. A Facebook post detailing the final days of a man who allegedly died of Covid-19 related complications has gone viral.