July 16  2020 - 09:54 Covid-19 positive pregnant woman loses baby Marzanne Lennox and her husband Thomas were going to name their miracle baby Jensen. Plans for the baby shower were under way and everyone in the family was excited to meet baby Jensen. This week, they were heartbroken by news of the baby’s death. Lennox, 29, has been in ICU after testing positive for Covid-19. Justice minister Ronald Lamola on masks, non-compliance and criminal records Justice minister Ronald Lamola gave an update on the amended lockdown regulations during a press briefing by the justice, crime prevention social security cluster on Wednesday. He explained the functions of the courts under alert level 3 and warned that violation of lockdown regulations will now carry a criminal record if the person is found guilty by a court. Counting Covid-19’s cost on other health issues in SA The fear of contracting Covid-19 is the major reason some people, especially those who are impoverished, have reported a hesitance to access health care during the pandemic. In addition to other challenges, including a shortage of medication, they have said they fear being arrested while travelling during the lockdown and are struggling to pay for transport to and from hospitals and clinics. This has emerged from a national panel survey revealing that Covid-19 and the measures put in place by the government to control its spread have resulted in a gruelling struggle for non-Covid-19 patients to access health care. Two million women have lost their jobs since Covid-19 hit SA Women are facing a double disadvantage due to job losses during the lockdown, and black women are affected the most. This is according to a survey conducted by 30 researchers from five SA universities, which revealed that about two million women lost their jobs between February and April. The National Income Dynamics Study (NIDS) Coronavirus Rapid Mobile Survey (CRAM) found that most of the women who lost their jobs during this period were already “disadvantaged” black women. Distress, confusion, anxiety, stress and helplessness plague many SA teachers, particularly at under-resourced schools​​. A webinar delves into the truths about teaching in the age of Covid-19. People accused of wrongdoing should not be held accountable while in quarantine as their immune system might not be able to handle the stress, resulting in them dying. This was the shocking call made by Eastern Cape co-operative governance & traditional affairs MEC Xolile Nqatha during a virtual memorial service of the late Buffalo City Metro speaker, Alfred Mtsi, in East London on Wednesday. Discussions on the reopening of schools are being held this week to seek an all-inclusive way forward. This is according to President Cyril Ramaphosa who on Wednesday evening took part in a virtual imbizo, answering questions from ordinary South Africans on their concerns amid the pandemic that has led the country to a harsh lockdown. The department of basic education is under pressure, as calls to halt schooling until the Covid-19 storm is over continue to gain momentum. Civic organisations, politicians and educators have criticised the government, accusing it  of “disregarding the lives of teachers and pupils by insisting on the continuation of academic activities”. On Tuesday, there were 298,292 identified cases of Covid-19 in SA and 4,346 deaths. Government contradictions continue to play out publicly following social development minister Lindiwe Zulu backing the reopening of early childhood development centres (ECDCs). This week, Zulu said the department wasn't opposing the reopening of these facilities. This after basic education minister Angie Motshekga last week announced that ECD centres and pre-grade R grades would not reopen on July 6. A dozen academic papers have laid bare the damage wrought by Covid-19 on employment, healthcare and food security. This the grim breakdown.