As well as being better for the environment, reusable face masks are a lot prettier than the throwaway kind. Moderna Inc's experimental vaccine for Covid-19 showed it was safe and provoked immune responses in all 45 healthy volunteers in an ongoing early-stage study, U.S. researchers reported on Tuesday. Volunteers who got two doses of the vaccine had high levels of virus-killing antibodies that exceeded the average levels seen in people who had recovered from Covid-19, the team reported in the New England Journal of Medicine. No study volunteers experienced a serious side effect, but more than half reported mild or moderate reactions such as fatigue, headache, chills, muscle aches or pain at the injection site. Food Lover’s Market was caught overcharging for ginger during lockdown, and it has been made to pay. It will donate essential goods worth R18,579 to an old-age home. Actress Enhle Mbali has opened up about the emotional turmoil she has faced over the past three years, also revealing that she has tested positive for Covid-19. Enhle took to Instagram on Tuesday to post a lengthy note to herself, giving her followers a glimpse into her state of mind. “The last 3 years have been testing. Emotionally, physically and mentally. I have been through so many life changes and I’m grateful as the universe continues to show me my greatness, even when it was being viciously stripped away from me, and non existent finish lines were being drawn on the ground and removed just before I reach them, the spirit of hopelessness would knock at my door reminding me of my unhappiness.” Radio personality Gareth Cliff has again taken aim at president Cyril Ramaphosa, calling his Sunday address “bullish**”. On his CliffCentral show this week, the controversial radio host said Ramaphosa had no right to decided what people, who live in a free country, could do or where they could go. “He goes on TV this president, willy-nilly and makes rules,” said Gareth. “He sits with his national coronavirus command council and they go, 'ah, I think we need to ban alcohol', and they decide among themselves and that's it and your right to do what you want is gone.” The government is considering taking action against store managers, public transport drivers and other compliance officers who fail to enforce the wearing of face masks. On Monday, justice minister Ronald Lamola said the government has been reluctant to criminalise those who have not been compliant with the regulations on the wearing of face masks and has been left with no choice but to hold lawbreakers accountable. If you have reached the point where you know you need help, but you cannot access private health care and aren’t sure where to turn next, this may be the help you need. The first question to ask yourself is what you need. Are you in a state of intense emotional distress and need to speak to someone right now? Has a doctor or loved one suggested you see a counsellor or therapist? Do you feel ready, or able, to start meeting a counsellor or therapist? Therapy works best in the context of a relationship, such as when you meet the same therapist over a period. But there are times when this is not possible. Pressure is mounting on basic education minister Angie Motshekga to close schools. Another teacher union, the National Professional Teachers' Organisation of SA (Naptosa), on Tuesday night added its voice to those of Sadtu and Educators Union of SA (Eus) in calling for schools to be closed as Covid-19 cases spike. Naptosa executive director Basil Manuel said in a statement that its National Standing Committee (NSC) met on Tuesday before a scheduled meeting between unions and the ministry on Wednesday, and it was decided by the union that schools should no longer keep their gates open.