As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to ravage the country, DJ Maphorisa has spoken out on the economic impact the lockdown to contain the coronavirus has had on poor communities. The star had a serious moment on Twitter this week, reflecting on the state of the country and calling for an end to the lockdown. He said it would be better to die trying to make coins than to die broke. “Why should we die broke? Rather die trying. This is sad man. Lockdown must end. This doesn’t make sense anymore,” he said. Contrary to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement on July 23 that the academic year “will go beyond 2020”, it has been proposed that the school year end on December 15 for pupils in grades R to 11. This is among the proposed amendments to the 2020 school calendar, according to a leaked document presented to a Hedcom workshop on July 28. Hedcom comprises the director-general of basic education Mathanzima Mweli and the superintendents-general of education of the nine provinces. Domestic workers have faced the brunt of the Covid-19 crisis, say trade union officials, whose members have often been left high and dry by employers, with little protection from the government. “Hunger is getting worse,” Gloria Kente, an organiser in the Western Cape for the South African Domestic and Service Allied Workers Union (Sadsawu). She said many domestic workers had either lost their jobs or had been indefinitely laid off due to Covid-19. Some of those who lost their jobs were not registered with the Unemployment Insurance Fund because employers did not comply with the regulations. Gauteng premier David Makhura briefed the media on Thursday during a weekly command council briefing about Covid-19 in the province. He began by addressing the investigations into alleged PPE tender irregularities in the province. The premier described the allegations as the biggest financial scandal since he took over in 2014. Makhura said he wants officials found guilty of wrongdoing to be held accountable. Tourism minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane has silenced the “noise” regarding the Tourism Relief Fund (TRF). Addressing the media on Thursday on the latest Covid-19 regulations governing the tourism and hospitality sector under level 3, Kubayi-Ngubane said there was “misleading noise” about who the funds are meant for. The Gauteng government will pay R50m to taxi rank marshals and managers to help fight Covid-19. But the plan has been questioned by transport specialists. "Under the theme "Harnessing science, technology and innovation in response to COVID-19: A national and international effort", the Summit will focus on health innovation and technologies, and social and economic sustainability during and after the pandemic. "