Long-serving Cape Malay Choir board president Shafiek April has succumbed to Covid-19 complications. April, who celebrated his 82nd birthday on April 18, passed away at Christiaan Barnard Memorial Hospital on Monday. He was buried in accordance with Muslim rites in Cape Town on Tuesday. April was a renowned administrator who was at the helm of the Cape Malay Choir board for 31 years. He joined the board as its secretary and was elected president in 1989. Before joining the board, he was the secretary of the Western Cape Rugby Union. The department of employment and labour has extended the Covid-19 Temporary Employee Relief Scheme (Ters) benefit until August 15. This was confirmed by deputy minister Boitumelo Moloi during a virtual presentation of the employment and labour department budget vote on Tuesday. Last month, the department indicated the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) would pay workers their relief payments under the Covid-19 Ters scheme until the end of June. The payments were intended as a stopgap for three months, until such time that the lockdown restrictions were eased and the economy slowly reopened. Passengers of China-bound flights must provide negative Covid-19 test results before boarding, China's aviation authority said on Tuesday, as the government looks to further reduce the risk of imported coronavirus cases amid increased international travel. Nucleic acid tests must be completed within five days of embarkation, the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) said on its website. Tests should be conducted at facilities designated or recognised by Chinese embassies in host countries, it said. The embassies will carefully assess the testing capacity of host countries and formulate travel procedures when testing conditions are met, CAAC said. President Donald Trump changed his tune in favour of face masks as a tool to combat the coronavirus in the United States, as European leaders on Tuesday agreed on a massive aid package for their pandemic-ravaged economies. Despite rising hopes for two vaccine candidates, there are few options available to combat the spread of Covid-19, though they do include face masks - which Trump and his political allies refused to encourage for months. But he changed direction on Monday, tweeting a photo of himself wearing a mask with the message: "We are United in our effort to defeat the Invisible China Virus, and many people say that it is Patriotic to wear a face mask when you can't socially distance." "There is nobody more Patriotic than me, your favorite President!" The University of Oxford's possible Covid-19 vaccine could be rolled out by the end of the year but there is no certainty that will happen, the lead developer of the vaccine said on Tuesday. The National Teachers Union (Natu) is confident that the cabinet will agree to close schools when it meets soon. Natu and four other teacher unions met deputy basic education minister Reginah Mhaule for the second consecutive night on Monday following the unions’ proposal that schools close until the end of next month, after Covid-19 infections have peaked. At least six ANC MPs and 18 parliamentary officials have tested positive for Covid-19 as the country begins a climb to its peak of the virus outbreak. ANC chief whip Pemmy Majodina on Tuesday wished a speedy recovery to members of her caucus, including two cabinet members who have been admitted to hospital, minister of labour Thulas Nxesi and minister of energy and mineral resources Gwede Mantashe. The restaurant industry is pleading with the presidency to allow restaurants operating “beyond alcohol-related trauma hotspots” to sell alcohol to customers, provided they order a main meal. Health minister Zweli Mkhize has warned that KwaZulu-Natal could be the next Covid-19 epicentre as the province's surge in infections continues. The province, which was the first to report a Covid-19 case - in March - is expected to “take over” from Gauteng, said Mkhize, who was speaking during his visit to the Nasrec field hospital in Johannesburg on Monday to assess Gauteng’s readiness for the Covid-19 surge. A Durban doctor has sounded the alarm about possible Covid-19 reinfection after dealing with patients who tested positive for the coronavirus more than once. Dr Yuvan Maharaj, who is based in Prospecton, in the south of the city, told TimesLIVE on Tuesday: "There are a few cases where patients tested positive, recovered and then became infected again. "One patient tested positive twice in three months. These could be early reinfection cases in SA." Employment and labour minister Thembelani “Thulas” Nxesi has been admitted to hospital due to Covid-19. Cabinet spokesperson Phumla Williams said on Tuesday the minister tested positive for the coronavirus almost a week ago and had been in self-quarantine at home. Black First Land First (BLF) has launched a petition demanding that the government close graves and prioritise saving lives as Covid-19 cases continue to surge in SA. BLF deputy Zanele Lwana told TimesLIVE on Monday that the petition will be presented to President Cyril Ramaphosa when it has received enough public backing. Refugees in Cape Town who protested to be resettled in other countries because of xenophobic violence in SA, are now trying to make a home for themselves in camps in Kensington and Bellville. “There’s no doubt that this is the biggest challenge we face in the living memory of being in practice for 20 years.” This is according to Dr David Stead, infectious diseases specialist and head of medicine at the Cecilia Makiwane and Frere hospitals in East London. The Covid-19 pandemic won’t give rise to a lost generation like the 1976 Soweto uprising did, but it could result in lost schooling. This is the word from an expert from the University of KwaZulu-Natal. Brazil's coronavirus death toll surpassed 80,000 Monday, according to health ministry figures, as the country hit second-hardest in the world after the United States continued struggling to control the pandemic.Brazil has recently regularly registered 1,000 new deaths a day -- though the figure for Monday was lower, at 632, bringing the overall death toll to 80,120.The South American country of 212 million people has confirmed 2.1 million infections. Experts say under-testing means the real numbers are probably much higher. At least seven police stations around the country have been temporarily closed for decontamination due to Covid-19. A week after the ban on the sale and distribution of alcohol was reintroduced under level 3 of the lockdown regulations, the pressure on hospitals beds has decreased. This was revealed during a discussion on Radio 702 on Monday focusing on the effectiveness of the reintroduced ban and night-time curfew a week ago. Substance abuse interventions, strengthening family ties, and job and work readiness are some of the programmes and services which will be offered to street people at Cape Town’s new “safe space”. The Culemborg expansion site was opened under the FW de Klerk Boulevard freeway bridge earlier this month. It will offer a place for 96 people, according to mayoral committee member for community services and health Zahid Badroodien. Many of the Eastern Cape's more than 256,000 Grade 3, 6 and 11 pupils did not pitch up for the first day of school on Monday. The dismal numbers include two schools where not one Grade 3 or 6 pupil arrived, a report reveals. One of the most challenging aspects of the Covid-19 pandemic is its unpredictability. Now, scientists say their work could predict who will need a ventilator. An advocacy group for ex-miners who suffered debilitating lung impairment while working on SA’s mines has expressed concern at the slow progress of the trust that is responsible for compensating affected miners. On July 10, the Justice for Miners Campaign (J4M), which was formed to lobby for miners and ex-miners that contracted either or both silicosis and tuberculosis while working in SA’s gold mines, published a statement of concern about the current state of operation of the Tshiamiso Trust. For the first time since July 8, South Africa recorded fewer than 10,000 Covid-19 cases in a 24-hour period. According to figures released by the health ministry on Monday night, there were 9,304 cases recorded since Monday night. This brings to 373,628 the total number of cases recorded across the country.