At about 9pm on Sunday night, more than a dozen new pieces of legislation were thrust upon SA. They cover everything from alcohol, cigarettes and wearing a mask to when you can leave your home. The laws, gazetted by cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, take effect immediately. A spike in Covid-19 infections at schools and parents’ reluctance to send their children back to class has forced many pupils to stay away. A teacher and a principal group said many schools ​had absentee rates of between 30% and 40%. Well-known Cape Town horticulturist and conservationist Anthony Hitchcock died in hospital on Tuesday of Covid-19 complications while undergoing treatment for cancer. The 60-year-old Hitchcock was the nursery and threatened species programme manager at the SA National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI). He was a dedicated and highly regarded fynbos expert who led various plant restoration projects in the Western Cape, and was reportedly still editing a scientific paper while in hospital. 4- year-old Blake McLean's pandemic meltdown is the most relatable thing on social media right now Pharmaceutical retailer Dis-Chem has closed down its drive-through Covid-19 testing sites due to backlogs and an unanticipated increase in the infection rate in Gauteng. Dis-Chem launched the drive-through Covid-19 testing sites in Gauteng in April, with each test costing R850. In June, the pharmaceutical retailer announced that it would be offering free tests to all unemployed South Africans and those with a job but without medical aid. 'Foreseeable future' According to Dis-Chem, it was closing its testing facilities for the “foreseeable future” as the results have severely affected the capacity of laboratories. An organisation claiming to represent thousands of businesses has called on the government to call off the lockdown, which it says has left many with no means of putting food on the table. The group “End Lockdown SA” made the call on Sunday in an open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa and members of his executive, among others. They argued that the lockdown has impacted negatively on their ability to make an income since it was imposed nearly 110 days ago. The Gauteng health department has denied claims the province has run out of oxygen amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. Employees who have not received payouts from the Temporary Employer/Employee Relief Scheme (Ters), which is the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) Covid-19 fund, since the beginning of lockdown, have no way of finding out what could be outstanding or delaying their payouts.