Laura Wolvaardt has said that the Momentum Proteas have put in a lot of work over the last couple of years in preparations for the ICC Women’s Cricket World Cup in New Zealand in January next year. She hopes that the tournament will not be scuppered by the coronavirus pandemic. Cricket South Africa (CSA) suspended all domestic activity for three months in March as the deadly Covid-19 disease started to ravage the cricket calendar across the world. The Absa Premiership and GladAfrica Championship clubs may have returned to training prematurely after it emerged on Monday that the health and safety compliance protocols were not approved by the South African Football Association (Safa). After sports minister Nathi Mthethwa granted permission for non-contact and contact sport training to resume last month‚ most of the clubs conducted their first round of Covid-19 testing. This was followed by a return to training but it has emerged that this was done without the knowledge of the sport's mother body Safa. Insurance Claims Africa (ICA) has welcomed the judgment of the Western Cape high court in which it compelled insurance company Guardrisk to honour the Covid-19 business interruption insurance claims of Cafe Chameleon, a Cape restaurant. ICA is a specialist public loss adjustment firm championing the cause of 500 businesses in the tourism and hospitality sector in their battle to get large insurers to pay "business interruption" insurance claims. ICA said so far insurers have been rejecting claims, even though they have extension cover for infectious and notifiable diseases, saying these policies were never meant to cover pandemics. Many predicted that Covid-19 would be catastrophic for SA by now. However, public health officials and doctors are now saying their earlier models were too pessimistic, CNN reports. The Competition Tribunal has fined Dis-Chem Pharmacies R1.2m after finding the company guilty of charging excessive prices for surgical face masks during the Covid-19 pandemic. In its order and reasons, the tribunal found that Dis-Chem contravened the Competition Act in that it charged an excessive price for three types of surgical face masks (SFM 50, SFM 5 and Folio50) to the detriment of consumers during March 2020. The tribunal’s reasons will be available publicly in due course. Cape Town officials are keeping their fingers crossed that Covid-19 road traffic statistics will become “the new norm” after no deaths were recorded on the city’s roads during April. April saw the fewest crashes since Cape Town’s freeway management system was established in 2012, with only 33 incidents. In March, before the national lockdown came into effect, there were 223 recorded crashes along the 179km of roads monitored by the system. Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro, who has long minimized the risks posed by the coronavirus, said Monday he had been tested after showing symptoms including a fever. Bolsonaro told CNN Brazil that he underwent an X-ray of his lungs at a military hospital as a precaution. Local media said the virus test results would come at about midday Tuesday. He also said he was taking hydroxychloroquine as a preventive measure. Local media said the 65-year-old Bolsonaro had cleared his schedule for the week. "The president is in good health at the moment and is in his residence," his office said in a statement. Restaurant owners have doubts about their ability to turn any profits, or pay off huge debts accumulated in the past few months, given the lockdown restrictions on alcohol consumption. Gauteng has been boosted its health-care services with an additional 300 nurses to help arrest the surge in Covid-19 cases. Health minister Zweli Mkhize told  Stephen Grootes on the SAfm Sunrise show that the nurses would help in the ICU and high-care wards and areas that were under pressure. Mkhize warned that Covid-19 cases in Gauteng were rising faster than in other parts of the country. Media24 is considering the closure of five magazines and two newspapers - along with staff cuts - in a restructuring shake-up accelerated by the "devastating" financial impact of the coronavirus pandemic. “The pandemic has accelerated the pre-existing and long-term structural decline in print media, resulting in a devastating impact on our own already fragile print media operations, with significant declines in both circulation and advertising since April,” Ishmet Davidson, CEO of Media24, said in a statement on Tuesday. “For many of our print titles, the benefits of prior interventions to offset the structural declines and keep them on the shelf no longer exist and they’ve run out of options in this regard.” Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday announced a "phased reopening" of the country, with the resumption of international flights from August 1 as well as the lifting of internal travel restrictions. The move comes as pressure mounts to kickstart the country's ailing economy after nearly four months of coronavirus restrictions that have devastated key industries such as tourism. Kenyatta said in a televised address that "international air travel into and out of the territory of Kenya shall resume effective 1 August 2020." Gauteng education MEC, Lesufi Panyaza, says pupils will not be deregistered if parents decide to keep them at home during the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, grade R, 6 and 11 pupils returned to school for the first time since schools closed in March. Grade 7 and 12 pupils were the first to go back to school on June 8. The reopening of schools in SA is continuing apace amid the Covid-19 pandemic. With many teachers falling ill and some dying, support for them is crucial. With schools steadily reopening to save what’s left of the academic year, teachers find themselves face to face with the Covid-19 pandemic that forced them to flee their classrooms in March. At the time of publication, at least 1,000 teachers had been infected with the coronavirus and the number was rising daily in a battle they never imagined having to fight. Former Generations actress Sthandiwe Kgoroge has opened up about testing positive for Covid-19, warning how the virus can attack your vital organs. The star recently took to Instagram to reveal that she is living with the coronavirus, and is already nine days into her recovery. She said Covid-19 was potentially devastating, and she did not wish it on her worst enemies. “I don't have enemies but if I did, I wouldn't wish this on them. This virus hits at all your vital organs, everything.” Many people in South Africa have faced challenges regarding their place of work - be it salary cuts, loss of income, retrenchments or liquidation. The Covid-19 lockdown in SA has brought a steep drop in income for most businesses, resulting in some closing down. During this time, employees and employers are faced with situations they have never been in before, resulting in a lot of confusion. For example, what if you are told you have to work from the workplace but it isn’t compliant with the health protocols? Covid-19 has thrown another spiked curve-ball at us. This time it's a new strain that spreads far more quickly. If the disruptions to HIV programmes, which have largely been influenced by the global response to Covid-19 and protracted lockdowns, continue unabated for another six months, an additional half a million people living with HIV in Africa will die and mother-to-child transmission of HIV will be set back by a decade. Speaking during the opening of the 23rd virtual International Aids Conference on Monday, UNAids executive director Winnie Byanyima said despite the progress made by many countries in their fight against HIV, too many people are still dying from HIV-related deaths. We have probably run out of capacity to treat people. It makes you feeluseless as a doctor to have to say that to someone. But there’s nothing else we can do. A sense of hope and faith pulled an asthmatic nurse out of the intensive care unit (ICU), where she was suffering with Covid-19 health complications. Brenda Joshua, a nurse at Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital in Cape Town, spent three days in ICU and a total of 10 days in hospital battling her own case of Covid-19. “The one thing I want to stress is that when you are weak there, and in your bed, whether you’re in hospital or at home, there is always hope,” said Joshua. As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to create an unprecedented crisis, phrases surrounding the virus have quickly become part of our daily vocabulary. Just a few months ago, words like “social distancing”, “self-isolation” and “quarantine” were confusing and rarely entered the daily lexicon across SA. And now - over 100 days into the lockdown that was initially planned for 21 days - it's hard to remember a time before the jargon. Bicycle entrepreneur Mpumelelo Mtintso watched his business disintegrate as Covid-19 took hold. But, with a deft switch of purpose he has turned a downturn into a great little earner.