Zimbabwe’s minister of lands, agriculture and rural resettlement, retired air marshal Perrance Shiri, died in the early hours on Wednesday after his personal driver succumbed to Covid-19. Shiri, 65, was rushed to a private hospital in Harare. Presidential spokesperson George Charamba said Shiri didn’t attend cabinet on Tuesday because he had gone into self-isolation after the death of his driver. Shortly after he inspired thousands of people when he went on video explaining how he had beaten Covid-19, 88-year-old New Brighton resident Kolekile “KK” Kwatsha has died. Hong Kong is on the verge of a "large-scale" coronavirus outbreak that could overwhelm hospitals, its leader warned Wednesday, as authorities implemented their toughest social distancing measures yet. From Wednesday all residents in the densely packed city of 7.5 million must wear masks when they leave their homes while restaurants can only serve takeaway meals. No more than two people from different households can gather in public with fines of up to HK$5,000 ($625) for those who breach the new emergency rules. When it comes to navigating life in the new normal, we take so many precautions to safeguard ourselves and our loved ones against Covid-19 that it's sometimes hard to tell if we've being pragmatic or paranoid. Case in point: should we should be sanitising or wiping down our groceries before packing them away — or is this overkill? Transport minister Fikile Mbalula said the people who surrounded late struggle stalwart Andrew Mlangeni's coffin on Tuesday "erupted spontaneously". "The reality is that we were less than 10 [from the ANC]. The ANC would not gather people and address them in the environment of the coronavirus," Mbalula said outside Mlangeni's home in Dube, Soweto, on Wednesday morning. "They [people]  spontaneously erupted and joined the line. When the coffin arrived, people moved forward. The marshalls tried to push them back," Mbalula said. China reported 101 new coronavirus cases Wednesday, its highest single-day figure in three months, as gyms, bars and museums closed in infection hotspots. Of the new cases, 98 were domestic infections, mostly in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, where a growing cluster first discovered earlier this month has prompted mass testing and restrictions. China -- where the global outbreak first emerged -- had largely brought domestic transmission under control through targeted lockdowns, travel restrictions and testing. But sporadic regional outbreaks have illustrated the difficulty of keeping the virus at bay. Etaine Wilson was told to report to the teachers' boardroom by Kasselsvlei Comprehensive High School acting principal Brett Dyers. The 18-year-old may be one of the Cape Town school’s star pupils, but the year has stripped nearly everything she held dear from her life. In 2020, surprises have seldom been pleasant. But last week there was finally something to celebrate. She and two of her peers, chosen for their academic excellence, walked in and were handed boxes containing laptops given to the school by Mark Young, CEO of fintech company Finclusion. It is now possible for repatriated South Africans to apply to self-quarantine for 10-14 days in their home or at a facility of their choice. Those who wish to isolate in the comfort of their home and not in a state-assigned quarantine facility must submit a written application at least 72 hours before the intended date of travel to the heath director-general to obtain approval. If the application of a person arriving in the country is approved, he or she will be allowed to self-quarantine or isolate on arrival and will be subjected to health reporting protocols and regular follow-ups by the department of health The National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) on Tuesday briefed the media on what it said was a fact-finding mission on the state's readiness to confront Covid-19 in hospitals. Nehawu general secretary Zola Saphetha said the site visits were done in response to complaints from union members about their working conditions. Saphetha explained the findings and detailed recommendations which would help improve conditions.