As the second cohort of pupils return to school on Monday morning, some parents said the safety of their children was just as important as their education. “I don’t blame the education department for reopening schools, but I also hope I won’t be blamed for caring about my son’s safety,” Ramondè Batista told TimesLIVE. The mother of three said she would not send her son Gianni back to school when his grade is due to return on Wednesday this week. The worst fear of the people of the Eastern Cape is now a reality — hospitals in the province are full, while the Covid-19 pandemic is still only approaching its peak around  the country. Two special advisers to the provincial health department called on Sunday for urgent steps to avoid a catastrophe, including the possibility of transporting Covid-19 patients from other regions to the two field hospitals in Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB). There was no firm response from government on why field hospitals are not yet operational in the eastern part of the province, and a large nurses' union said it was unaware hospitals had reached their full operating capacity. Refuse collection in parts of  KwaDukuza (Stanger), north of Durban, has been temporarily halted after workers tested positive for Covid-19. In a statement on Sunday, the municipality said seven staff members from various units had tested positive for the virus. The taxi driver was as cool as a cucumber. It was early on Tuesday morning at the Daveyton taxi rank in Ekurhuleni when passengers filed into his minibus as taxi operators started defying the government's interprovincial travel restrictions. At 7.55am, the taxi was ready to hit the road. All 10 passengers already seated inside the taxi were relaxed. The common feature was the heavy travel bags they were carrying and the protective masks which partly covered their faces as the taxi took off to begin its long-distance journey of more than 300km to Thulamahashe in Mpumalanga. The worst fear of the people of the Eastern Cape is now a reality — hospitals in the province are full, while the Covid-19 pandemic is still only approaching its peak around  the country. Two special advisers to the provincial health department called on Sunday for urgent steps to avoid a catastrophe, including the possibility of transporting Covid-19 patients from other regions to the two field hospitals in Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB). There was no firm response from government on why field hospitals are not yet operational in the eastern part of the province, and a large nurses' union said it was unaware hospitals had reached their full operating capacity. On the first day of the return of the second cohort of pupils during the Covid-19 lockdown, mixed results were seen in grades R, 6 and 11 classes. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga on Monday thanked a class of pupils in Midrand for coming back to school, and thanked them for trusting her department with their safety. Motshekga addressed a class of grade 11 pupils at Noordwyk Secondary School on Monday, and stressed the need for pupils to always wear their masks, practise social distancing and sanitise all the time. SA will not be returning to higher levels of lockdown despite the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases. This is according to President Cyril Ramaphosa, who confirmed that a decision to move the country back to level 4 or 5 of lockdown was not on the cards. Speaking during his visit to Mpumalanga this past week, Ramaphosa said a hard lockdown wasn't on the cards due to spiralling job losses. India announced Monday that it has nearly 700,000 coronavirus cases, taking it past Russia to become the third-hardest-hit nation in the global pandemic. The health ministry said 697,358 cases had now been recorded, a rise of 24,000 in 24 hours, while Russia has just over 681,000. The United States and Brazil have the highest numbers of cases but India's tally is not expected to peak for several more weeks and experts predict the one million figure will be passed this month. With infections surging and a limited number of test kits, pathology practice Pathcare is restricting Covid-19 tests to patients most in need and at risk. This is being implemented at all its laboratories and depots from Monday. The Gauteng government said it did not ask the national government to allow it to introduce an “intermittent” hard lockdown in the province, but instead called for tougher enforcement of the current regulations. “We are not calling for a return of a hard lockdown. We fully understand and support the current risk adjusted strategy which is being implemented by the national government and the president,” provincial spokesperson Thabo Masebe told eNCA on Monday morning. Dozens of teaching days have been lost to Covid-19, but it won't end there - and the full impact of this is not yet known. This is the grim news from basic education minister Angie Motshekga. “I am breathing again,” sighs Kanto Razafimandimby on her first night out since SA reopened restaurants and casinos as part of a gradual loosening of lockdown, even as the number of coronavirus cases continues to rise. “It really feels like my freedom is back,” the 27-year-old said while dining with three friends at Verdicchio Restaurant and Wine Cellar in the northern Johannesburg suburb of Fourways. Saturday marked the 100th day of lockdown for SA. The lockdown has imposed some of the strictest stay-at-home measures in the world since March 27 in a bid to limit the spread of Covid-19. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga said almost all the provinces are currently doing repairs to schools which have been vandalised. A total of 1,718 schools have been vandalised during the national lockdown, she told a briefing on Sunday. “What is disturbing is that the criminals continue to cause havoc in our schools,” the minister said. President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed concern about the outbreaks of coronavirus in old age homes. "The reality however is that in keeping our distance from our elderly parents and grandparents at this time we could be saving their lives." Learners in grades 6 and 11 are set to return to school on Monday.