Gauteng recorded 4,597 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the provincial government said on Wednesday. This has taken the number of confirmed cases to 71,488. Department spokesperson Kwara Kekana said 21,414 people had recovered, while 478 had died. Many scientists say obesity increases your risk of death if you contract Covid-19, yet others say this isn't yet proven. What they now know for sure, however, is that those with obesity are far more likely to need a ventilator, which means it is crucial for countries with high obesity prevalence (above 40%) to be prepared. SA’s obesity levels are far above the global average, which makes the latest report from two New York hospitals especially relevant. Western Cape premier Alan Winde tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. He said he was at a higher risk of developing more serious illness because he was over 55-years-old and suffered from type-2 diabetes. “I received a positive test result for Covid-19 this morning, and I am in self-isolation at home for 14 days,” Winde said in a statement. ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte has sent a strong message to ANC members to use WhatsApp groups to spread information about Covid-19 instead of gossiping and socialising. In a voice note circulated to party members, Duarte said South Africans have not fully internalised the impact of Covid-19. She asked members to remain cautious and follow all preventative measures. DA leader John Steenhuisen says President Cyril Ramaphosa has been nothing but a spectator in the country's fight against Covid-19. In a speech on Wednesday, Steenhuisen said the country has not seen real leadership from Ramaphosa since he announced the lockdown, more than 100 days ago. “We are yet to see leadership from the one man who matters. Throughout all of this – as the rogue ministers of the national command council compounded our problems with petty regulations, as our hospitals filled up and our economy imploded – President Ramaphosa has been little more than a spectator. Two men arrested for collecting and recycling waste during lockdown in Tshwane were released from Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Centre on Tuesday after spending three months in prison. Justice Shabangu and George Mphotshe were arrested on April 7 for continuing to work under lockdown level 5 restrictions which stated that everyone should stay home unless they were providing an essential service. A steaming dish of milk and maize porridge interrupts an early-morning mathematics class in Sitoromo Junior Secondary School in the Eastern Cape province. A dozen hungry pupils dig their spoons into the brimming bowls as the sun slowly thaws the frosty meadows surrounding their town, Sterkspruit, tucked in the Maluti mountains across the border from Lesotho. "There are children who are schooling here who rely mostly on the meals they get from school," said their principal, Thabang Letsoso. As thousands of South Africans face unemployment and retrenchment, DJ Sbu has teamed up with businessman Khandani Msibi to give R400,000 to help 20 businesses stay afloat. Sowetan reported on Tuesday that retailer Massmart Holdings Ltd had started talks with unions to cut up to 1,800 jobs at Game stores across the country because of the Covid-19 pandemic and reduced consumer spending. The news came as Media 24 announced it was considering the closure of five magazines and two newspapers, cutting hundreds of jobs, as it restructures in the wake of the pandemic. A drug that will be available in SA by the end of July is expected to save the lives of more than 13,000 Covid-19 patients by the end of the year. Around 30,000 doses of a generic version of remdesivir, the only proven treatment for Covid-19, are being manufactured by Cipla under licence from Gilead Sciences of the US. Recent research has suggested remdesivir can reduce Covid-19 deaths by up to 30%. It also reduces intensive care stays from 15 days to 11, on average. Former KwaDukuza mayor and ANC KwaZulu-Natal leader Ricardo Mthembu died on Wednesday. One SA Movement leader Mmusi Maimane has called on teachers and pupils to take part in a national school stay-away protest on Friday. On Tuesday, Maimane called for the stay-away to protest against government's decision to reopen schools during the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the protest's demand is for basic education minister Angie Motshekga to reverse the decision to reopen schools. University of the Witwatersrand Professor Shabir Madhi said airborne transmission of Covid-19 is a reality and has been underestimated. “There is emerging evidence that is cause for concern that we might have underestimated the role of airborne transmission of Covid-19,” Madhi told eNCA on Tuesday. Madhi said previously the focus was around the notion that patients are infected when coming in to contact with contaminated surfaces. But that has since changed, he said. Premier Oscar Mabuyane has announced that every person who dies in the Eastern Cape would be tested for Covid-19 before their bodies are released to their families, but health MEC Sindiswa Gomba said there are not enough testing kits for such an exercise. Mabuyane was addressing the media in Bhisho on Tuesday on a new community-based strategy to combat the spread of the coronavirus, which he said was “now galloping”. Mabuyane said in addition to testing every corpse for Covid-19, the provincial coronavirus command council had revised the number of people permitted to attend funerals down to immediate family only. Contact and non-contact sports may resume training without any spectators and must comply with the Covid-19 health protocols. This is according to new directives from minister of sport, arts and culture Nathi Mthethwa, published in an amended gazette. The directives, which come into immediate effect, fall under the advanced level 3 lockdown regulations. Mthethwa said the directives include specific guidelines for the arts and sports sectors. Former Muvhango actress Lerato Zah Moloi has warned about the dangers of Covid-19, after testing positive for the virus. The star took to Instagram this week to reveal that she first developed symptoms several days ago and hoped her journey might help someone else. “I've been contemplating just posting this video and telling my story because generally I am a private person and I'm a shy person, believe or not ... I don't put my life out there and I hardly post on social media ... ” Lerato began her video. A Covid-19 patient has received a double lung transplant in South Korea, offering hope for others. The 50-year-old woman was diagnosed with the disease and hospitalised in late February. She then spent 16 weeks on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support, which involves circulating a patient’s blood through a machine that adds oxygen to red blood cells. Glenn Sandler, 36, worked as a business intelligence analyst for Capitec. He lived with his fiancée, was able to work remotely, and, as the son of a doctor and a pharmacist, was careful to take precautions against catching Covid-19. He had no chronic conditions known to make Covid-19 cases worse. But when he caught the disease, it nearly killed him. His brother Justin told GroundUp the story. On Wednesday June 3, as restrictions were lifted to level 3 lockdown, Glenn found his family’s long-time housekeeper at his doorstep. She had been working for the family for his entire life, and during lockdown Glenn had continued to pay her salary and asked her to stay at home. But she decided to visit him. This story was originally published on GroundUp. Zimbabwean president Emmerson Mnangagwa has fired his health minister at the centre of a $60m (about R1bn) Covid-19 supplies deal. Obadiah Moyo, known as “DJ Mighty Biscuit” in Harare’s yesteryear nightclub circuit, was summarily dismissed for “conduct inappropriate for a government minister”. Moyo was arrested last month and accused of abuse of office. He allegedly corruptly issued $60m in tenders to supply Covid-19 test kits and medical equipment to obscure companies linked to the political elite. If found guilty, he could face up to 15 years in jail. He was granted bail of $2,000 (about R34,320). If scientists compromise on science and give in to political pressures during the scourge of Covid-19, the pandemic may end up killing more people, just like HIV/Aids did during Aids denialism, the country’s chief scientist has warned. Professor Abdool Salim Karim, director of the Centre for the Aids Programme of Research in SA and chairperson of the Covid-19 ministerial advisory committee, told delegates at the 23rd International Aids Conference that scientists on the frontline of Covid-19 should always “stand by science”. If tests on a sample of hand sanitisers conducted by a private, accredited laboratory in KwaZulu-Natal are anything to go by, almost half are not complying with the government’s regulation that alcohol-based hand sanitisers must contain no less than 70% alcohol. After being confronted with the results, one company said it would remix the bottles and donate them to charity. One of the products that did not meet the required standards was used to sanitise shoppers’ hands at a clothing store. For most Covid-19 positive patients, it usually takes 14 days to recover. However, for one Wynberg, Cape Town, patient, it took three months of treatment. Among other things, his treatment included health professionals making a hole in his neck to help him breathe. Robson Shaby, who is arguably the Covid-19 patient admitted to hospital for the longest time in the Western Cape, has now made a full recovery. His stay at the Victoria Hospital pushed medical staff to explore unknown medical territory to save his life.