While there is speculation that the government may close schools for two weeks, President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to make an announcement on Thursday on the matter. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga met with governing body associations, a principals’ association and other stakeholders at midday on Wednesday. She will meet the five teacher unions on Wednesday night. Co-operative governance & traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma did not take kindly to accusations by a DA MP that her focus in the fight against Covid-19 has been on “zol and alcohol”. “Honourable Hoosen, I used to have great respect for you as an honourable member, but today I've lost that respect,” she said on Wednesday addressing the criticism. While she initially did not want “to dignify” the criticism with a response, she reiterated that the government was trying to balance saving lives and livelihoods. “I pay for my UCT studies by waitering,” said Bukasa Mukuna, a waiter in Cape Town's CBD. “There are 147 people working here. That's not just 147 people but 147 families that are at risk, so without the work we are dead. “I know the virus is killing people — but hunger kills people too.” Police have seized 17,000 fake Covid-19 testing kits discovered in raids against illicit food and drink products across dozens of countries, Interpol said Wednesday. Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Tuesday imposed a curfew and reinstated strict measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus following a spike in cases in recent weeks. The number of cases recorded in the southern African country, whose health system has been tottering from years of neglect, rose by nearly a third over the past week to a total 1,713 cases. The number of deaths climbed from 18 to 26. The surge in Covid-19 infections could slow down around October. This is according to the chair of the Covid-19 ministerial advisory committee, Prof Salim Abdool Karim. Western Cape premier Alan Winde has shared the inspirational story of 93-year-old Katherine Dorothy Newman, who survived Covid-19 after becoming one of the first people to get infected when coronavirus hit SA in March. The premier said she is one of the oldest survivors of the disease in the province. Zuliswa Maqana danced on her way out of Groote Schuur Hospital after spending 77 days being treated for Covid-19 — at times barely able to talk or walk. The 48-year-old mother is one of the longest hospitalised Covid-19 patients across the provincial public health service in the Western Cape. The recovery period for people with “mild” bouts of Covid-19 can last between 10 and 14 days. Maqana’s journey to recovery was akin to running a marathon. “It was a rocky course through the ICU with complications and other infections along the way,” said Dr Henri Pickardt, general surgeon at the hospital. More members of parliament (MPs) have tested positive for Covid-19. “Parliament’s presiding officers have learnt of more MPs who have tested positive for Covid-19,” parliament said in a statement. Labour and employment minister Thulas Nxesi, mineral resources and energy minister Gwede Mantashe and MP Zamoxolo Peter have been hospitalised due to Covd-19. After losing her boyfriend and stepfather to Covid-19 days apart, a distraught Pietermaritzburg woman scrambled to find money to pay for the funeral for her mother, who died on Tuesday. "I have lost half my family in three weeks. I am stressed and heartbroken from every side. I have no-one to turn to," Laurisha Beepath told TimesLIVE. When local Instagram “artist” Leonardo da Convincing first blessed the photo and video-sharing social network with his art at the beginning of April, "LDC" admitted that this was a project induced by the Covid-19 pandemic to try to lift the spirits of South Africans during the lockdown. The National Teachers Union is confident the cabinet will agree to close schools.​ They had been told their position would be submitted to the cabinet, which “will take a decision on what we put on the table”.