Health minister Zweli Mkhize and Gauteng health MEC Bandile Masuku visited Nasrec and Lenasia hospitals in Johannesburg on Monday to assess their readiness for the Covid-19 peak. “Today what we are really up to is to see how things are tying up in terms of additional beds available. We are going around to see if Gauteng can show its readiness,” Mkhize said during a media briefing. He said a reduction of trauma patients brought about by the ban on alcohol sales was a “huge” advantage for the health department. Virgin Active says “temporary layoffs” are on the cards for staff at its gyms, head office and contact centre. The company has denied rumours about staff being retrenched, saying on Monday that staff would be temporarily “laid off” while receiving 25% of their salaries. “To support our staff, they will receive at least 25% of their income despite suspended employment,” a Virgin Active spokesperson told TimesLIVE. “A reopening of gyms will allow us to abandon these temporary layoffs and reinstate our people to their jobs.” The country’s five teacher unions were flabbergasted on Sunday night when deputy basic education minister Reginah Mhaule and a task team comprising five education MECs asked them for proposals on why schools should be closed. Public enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan will lead Tshwane’s fight against Covid-19, the city confirmed on Monday. Tshwane head administrator Mpho Nawa said Gordhan had been deployed by President Cyril Ramaphosa to the city to lead the district efforts in the fight against the pandemic. The city has been identified as a hotspot. Nawa said they had implemented a ward-based Covid-19 outreach screening and testing campaign, targeting hotspots. The Chatsworth police station, south of Durban, has closed after staff members tested positive for Covid-19 again. ​Police spokesperson Brig Jay Naicker said the station has been closed temporarily after staff tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. In May the station closed for decontamination after a constable contracted the coronavirus. One of SA's biggest funeral parlours has begun converting shipping containers into mobile mortuaries in anticipation of a spike in Covid-19-related deaths. Avbob has already produced nine mobile mortuaries at a factory in Bloemfontein to ensure it does not run out of space when Covid-19 deaths are at a peak. Donald Smiles walked to the bedroom where his wife lay with a fever and read the message from the pathology laboratory. “I took her hand, held her and told her that her test results came back positive. She took a deep breath. I could see the worry on her face. She told me she expected it,” former DA MP Smiles told TimesLIVE on Monday. President Cyril Ramaphosa has praised young entrepreneurs who have seized opportunities that contribute to the economy and alleviation of poverty during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I am very pleased at the combination of foresight, creativity and business acumen displayed by a number of young South Africans who are coming up with home-grown solutions to the contemporary challenges we face,” Ramaphosa said in his weekly newsletter. “Some have started small business ventures because of personal circumstances, like losing their jobs. Others who were previously unemployed have seized the opportunity provided by the pandemic to create their own incomes.” He cited a number of businesses run by young people around the country, including a bicycle-based delivery service in Cape Town’s Langa township. Gauteng police have warned they are ready to clamp down on mourners when the number of people in attendance at funerals surpasses 50, as stipulated by the Disaster Management Act (DMA) regulations. The Limpopo education department has suspended the return of grades 3 and 10 to school from Monday. "The Limpopo department of education had previously communicated that grades 3 and 10 would be phased back to school on July 20 in accordance with amended directions published in the government gazette No 43510, by the minister of basic education on July 7 2020," the department said in a statement. The department said, however, it deemed it "preferable", after careful consideration of all key variables in phasing back more pupils, to suspend the return of the two grades to class. At least 14 prisoners have died from likely Covid-19 complications in scantly-monitored outbreaks of the disease at Egyptian detention centres, Human Rights Watch said Monday. Updated Covid-19 directives for interprovincial travel for South Africans returning to work or university have been put in place by transport minister Fikile Mbalula. The new regulations include the mandatory use of face masks, sanitising of passengers before boarding and landing, keeping windows open by at least 5cm, and a 70% loading capacity. The regulations come into effect immediately, and a violation of the rules would be classified as a criminal offence, Mbalula said. KZN scientists say they can detect Covid-19 in sewage. It's groundbreaking research that could ease transmission and identify hot spots​. The ban on the sale of wines locally has pushed more companies to seek to sell their wines overseas, but the continuing ban on overseas travel has made it more difficult to introduce more SA wines to overseas markets. “The ban on the sale of wine affects my total trading ability. It negates me as a business.” These are the words of Schalk Burger Snr, owner of the Welbedacht Wine Estate in Wellington in the Western Cape. A vaccine is far off and our rulers are hapless. So we can rely only on ourselves to survive the pandemic.