May 13 2020 - 14:54 Eastern Cape police commissioner tests positive for Covid-19 Eastern Cape police commissioner Lt-Gen Liziwe Ntshinga has tested positive for Covid-19. “The provincial commissioner received her diagnosis this past weekend after voluntarily undergoing a test despite being asymptomatic,” said police spokesperson Brig Vish Naidoo on Wednesday. May 13 2020 - 14:43 Ramaphosa to address SA at 8.30pm President Cyril Rampahosa will speak to South Africans at 8.30pm, the presidency has confirmed. The address was on the country's “ongoing measures to manage the spread of the coronavirus through the implementation of a risk adjusted strategy”. The address comes after Ramaphosa met with cabinet and the National Coronavirus Command Council. May 13 2020 - 14:15 Western Cape outpaces Morocco as Covid-19 cases climb another 9% The Western Cape has more coronavirus cases than Morocco, according to updated statistics on Wednesday. Provincial cases increased in the day by 573 (9.25%) to 6,767, according to the Western Cape government Covid-19 dashboard, and deaths increased by seven to 117. More than 93% of the new cases were in Cape Town, where Khayelitsha (927 cases, up 11.1%) has the highest per capita infection rate of 231 per 100,000 people. KZN premier slams document to 'guide reopening' of churches KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala has had to remind churches that the country is still on level 4 of lockdown and gatherings are still prohibited, including religious gatherings. This follows the circulation on social media of a document titled “Return to church guidelines from May 21”, purported to be a guideline for the reopening of churches during level 4 of the lockdown. The document is not attributed to any church or religious organisation. Cosatu backs Ebrahim Patel over 'Alice in Wonderland' Covid-19 clothing sales regulations Trade union federation Cosatu has come out in support of trade and industry minister Ebrahim Patel amid criticism over a list of clothing items allowed for sale under lockdown level 4. This comes after the opposition DA slammed Patel and called for his sacking following the gazetting of regulations determining which clothing items can be sold. In a statement on Wednesday morning DA trade and industry spokesperson Dean Macpherson labelled the regulations bizarre and extraordinary, and seemingly “plucked from Alice in Wonderland”. Lesotho records first case of COVID-19 Lesotho recorded its first case of COVID-19 on Thursday, the health ministry said. In a statement, the ministry said it had conducted 81 tests for COVID-19 from travellers from South Africa and Saudi Arabia, of which one was positive. The kingdom, nestled in a South African mountain range, had so far been spared the coronavirus that has affected other countries in southern Africa. -REUTERS 'Relax the regulations': small businesses in fight for survival The Legal Resources Centre (LRC) is challenging a decision by Cape Town to prohibit informal traders operating during the lockdown, as small businesses lobby the government to be allowed to reopen. The centre said it received a request from the South African Informal Trader Alliance (Saita) to intervene and offer legal assistance regarding the issuing of permits by the city to traders operating on the Grand Parade. Early childhood development 'is critical during the lockdown' “Early childhood development (ECD) education should always be prioritised. I don’t think the government realises the impact and importance of this phase of education and the cost-to-benefit ratio in early interventions,” says Anna Talbot, volunteer programme designer and co-ordinator at the Rhodes University community engagement division. Talbot believes that ECD education should be a priority alongside other academic plans for this year which have been interrupted by the coronavirus pandemic. eNCA cameraman Lungile Tom dies of Covid-19 Lungile Tom, who worked for eNCA at the company’s Cape Town office as one of its camera operators, died of Covid-19 on Wednesday morning. eMedia Investments said Tom was admitted to hospital on Sunday night, with Covid-19 symptoms. Cyril Ramaphosa chairs command council meeting to discuss relaxing lockdown regulations The national command council on Covid-19 was meeting on Wednesday, where it could make the anticipated announcement on relaxing the country's national lockdown regulations to level 3. The meeting, which is being chaired by President Cyril Ramaphosa, was expected to grapple with making the move to level 3, two weeks after moving to level 4. More children abandoned during lockdown, says Joburg baby shelter Door of Hope Children's Mission has welcomed a new baby to its shelter — the seventh since the start of lockdown. The baby shelter in Johannesburg announced on Tuesday that the baby - just a few months old - was found abandoned on the side of the road. Western Cape cops seize black market cigarettes worth R322,000 Police in the Western Cape say they have stopped two consignments of illegal cigarettes worth R322,000 reaching the black market. One consignment was being smuggled from the Eastern Cape and the other from Polokwane. Top designer JJ Schoeman makes face masks to survive Covid-19 crunch Famed SA designer JJ Schoeman is making cloth face masks to keep his business alive during the Covid-19 crisis. Schoeman, who counts among his famous clients Bonang Matheba, Abigail Kubeka, Khanyi Mbau, Jackson Mthembu and former Miss World Rolene Strauss, decided to go the mask route after the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown impacted on his Johannesburg-based business. Informal restaurants, shisanyamas can sell hot food for home delivery Informal restaurants and shisanyamas have been given permission to operate under level 4 of the lockdown - but can sell cooked food for home deliveries ordered telephonically or online only. Small business development minister Khumbudzo Ntshavheni has amended regulations on what small and microbusinesses can sell. The changes were published in the Government Gazette dated May 12. 'Longest eight weeks of my life': green light to repatriate South Africans stuck in African states A South African man stranded in Morocco for eight weeks cannot believe that he and other South Africans stuck in three other African countries will finally be repatriated on Thursday evening. “We just want to celebrate the fact that we are eventually going home. I cannot believe as I sit here ... I can say that tomorrow I am going home. It has been the longest eight weeks of my life,” James de Wet said from Casablanca in Morocco on Wednesday morning. 'What are crop bottoms?': Mzansi outraged by winter clothing regulations Crop bottoms worn with boots and leggings. Shirts displayed and promoted to be worn under jackets, coats or knitwear. Short-sleeved knit tops promoted and displayed as worn under cardigans and knitwear. These are some of the regulations that retail stores should abide by when selling winter clothes under level 4 lockdown. The list of winter clothing was gazetted on Tuesday by the trade and industry department after consultations with stakeholders in the textile industry. ‘A dedicated man who lived for his family’: wife of policeman taken by Covid-19 Capt Andrew Leslie could still walk when his wife persuaded him to go to hospital. He had been struggling with a fever, cough and a sore throat. Just hours after being admitted to Wilhelm Stahl Hospital, a doctor told his wife, Colette: “Sorry, he didn’t make it.” The acting commander of Middelburg police station in the Eastern Cape had not succumbed to a bullet fired by a criminal. He was felled by Covid-19 on Monday evening. National coronavirus command council meets as calls mount for Ramaphosa to address the nation The national coronavirus command council chaired by president Cyril Ramaphosa met on held a meeting on Wednesday morning. This comes as calls mount for Ramaphosa to address the nation. His last address was 20 days ago. MP flags court backlogs compounded by 'trivial' cases under Covid-19 rules Deputy minister of justice John Jeffery has told parliament that backlogs in district and regional courts have increased by 6% and 11% respectively over the past year. Members of parliament’s portfolio committee on justice received a presentation from the office of the chief justice – which has jurisdiction over high courts - where they expressed great concern with the backlog in courts being exacerbated by the limited operations bought about by the lockdown. 'Mr President, we need to know the plan please': Mzansi calls on Ramaphosa to address the nation Calls are mounting for Ramaphosa to address the nation after almost three weeks of silence. The country is on day 48 of the nationwide lockdown and it's been 20 days since President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation. Calls are mounting for Ramaphosa to address the nation after almost three weeks of silence. His last address was to announce the move from lockdown level 5 to level 4. This could be the reason Covid-19 is particularly dangerous for the elderly Experts in human ageing believe they have found a reason Covid-19 is particularly damaging and virulent among older people. A group of tiny ribonucleic acid (RNA) molecules that should attack the virus when it tries to infect the body are diminished with age and chronic health problems, say two doctors at the Centre for Healthy Aging at Augusta University in the US. They think this decrease helps to explain why older people and those with pre-existing medical conditions are vulnerable populations. Breaking restrictions to cover costs: This business owner says he has no choice He was doing things by the book, but as the bills pile up and his competitors break lockdown regulations, this fast-food owner has had to contemplate not just his own livelihood, but that of his two staff members. This is his story of breaking the law to put food on the table. Patel under fire from DA for 'Alice in Wonderland' clothing gazette New regulations on what clothing can be purchased during the national lockdown, signed by trade, industry and competition minister Ebrahim Patel, have been likened by the DA to a list from “Alice in Wonderland”. A government gazette dated Tuesday May 12 listed items that can be sold, with immediate effect, under level 4 of the national regulations. “These new clothing regulations are frankly mad and seem more at place during the 1980s under the Soviet Union than they do in a democracy like SA,” DA MP Dean Macpherson charged in a statement. “If we were allowed to return to our piece jobs, we would be able to provide for our families. I used to earn R100 some days and would be able to buy food,” he said. The men said they had not benefited from food parcels and vouchers in their wards and had to return to the spot to make money. “I decided to return back to the robots because of hunger. I couldn’t continue to stay at home with an empty stomach. Even though I stand here looking for a job, I take anything. Even if people throw 50c, I take it.” Teachers in almost all nine provinces may not return to school on Monday because provincial education departments are still awaiting personal protective equipment. Thanks to the "non-performance" of one firm, five departments have to restart the procurement process. Callous thieves have wiped out a field of spinach used to feed vulnerable people during the lockdown in Cape Town’s southern peninsula. Generous farmers from across the province provided  "Money for Jam - Shelter from the Storm" with the various products they need for the meals - but the theft had dampened the spirits said founder of the self-help community project. Although no official statement has been made yet, President Cyril Ramaphosa and his ministers have hinted that level 3 may soon be on the cards. In his newsletter to the nation this week, Ramaphosa said the goal was to ease the lockdown to level 3. People can see we are a legit business ... The community has received us very well. “We also want to collect medicine for people who are sick from the clinic,”