Level 3 lockdown coming soon? Zweli Mkhize keeps dropping hints Health minister Zweli Mkhize has hinted that level 3 of the nationwide lockdown could arrive soon. This comes after Mkhize noted last week that prolonging the lockdown would not have a substantial impact on the possible peak of Covid-19 infections. Here are three times Mkhize has dropped hints about SA's lockdown future: Economic bans, exercise rules fail the test of rationality: Trevor Manuel Trevor Manuel, the former finance minister now tasked with mobilising international support for Africa’s efforts to address the economic challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic, says some of the regulations imposed on South Africans fail the reasonableness test. While emphasising his support for the government's determination to curb the spread of the coronavirus, Manuel condemned law-enforcement officials for using force during the lockdown, and criticised some of the economic measures that have been implemented. SA’s Covid-19 testing strategy needs urgent fixing: here’s how to do it The Covid-19 epidemic in South Africa is now in its exponential phase, with cases rapidly increasing in many areas. This is most apparent in the Western Cape, which could be due to higher rates of testing per capita, coupled with a more selective testing strategy than in other provinces. The doubling time of mortality in the Cape Town metro is now eight to nine days, indicating a rapid increase in the number of severe cases and deaths from Covid-19. -The Conversation Lost dreams, financial stress: KZN salon owner on lockdown disaster She has dipped into her savings, relies on a single income and does not know whether her business will survive. Thando Msomi says her future is murky as she tries to navigate the unknown during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. Msomi owns The Posh Parlour, a beauty salon in Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal. 1,305 recoveries in Gauteng  as cases near 2,000 Gauteng’s health department said on Monday morning the province had recorded 22 Covid-19 deaths and 1,305 recoveries. Department spokesperson Kwara Kekana said the number of confirmed cases had increased to 1,952 as of Sunday. Ramaphosa warns 'restive citizens' of a new Covid-19 reality, for a year at least President Cyril Ramaphosa has urged South Africans to be prepared for a new reality in which the fight against Covid-19 will be part of their daily lives. In his weekly newsletter, Ramaphosa said South Africans should be prepared to live with the virus for a year or even more. “Our success in overcoming the coronavirus will ultimately be determined by the changes we make in our behaviour. Sassa to reopen its doors on Monday The SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) in Gauteng was expected to reopen its doors for the first time since the start of the nationwide lockdown on Monday. This is according to spokesperson, Paseka Letsatsi, who said limited services would be offered. “Only a third of employees will return to work so Sassa services on offer will be limited. The numbers of clients served at local offices will be very limited to ensure social distancing and general compliance with the laws,” he said in a statement. More than R9bn paid out in UIF Covid-19 claims The Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) has paid 123,767 employers Covid-19 Temporary Employer/Employee Relief Scheme (Ters) benefits totalling R9,474,081 937.26. JMPD denies reports that officers must buy their own masks The Johannesburg metro police department (JMPD) has denied reports that officers were forced to buy their own masks during the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. JMPD spokesperson Wayne Minnaar said on May 1 the department received 5,000 masks from a non-governmental organisation. He said “every officer” who was on duty on that day each received two masks. What you need to know about the coronavirus right now Here's what you need to know about the novel coronavirus right now: Second wave alarm South Korean officials are scrambling to track down thousands of people after a small cluster of coronavirus cases emerged around several Seoul nightclubs. The new outbreak, which has sent infections rebounding to a one-month high, comes just as the government was transitioning from intensive social distancing to measures around "distancing in daily life". -REUTERS KZN looks to game reserves for Covid-19 quarantine beds KwaZulu-Natal game reserves could be used to house the province’s Covid-19 patients, premier Sihle Zikalala said on Sunday. In a statement, Zikalala said that the province was talking to provincial wildlife authority KZN Ezemvelo Wildlife about the use of their lodges should extra quarantine facilities be needed. “These facilities can be made available within 48 hours on receipt of an official order,” said Zikalala. WATCH | Sanitising by the numbers: What it takes to keep Covid-19 at bay in Gauteng As SA prepared to enter a nationwide lockdown to combat the spread of the coronavirus, the Scientology Volunteer Minister's group, prepared to play a part in fighting the spread of the virus. As of March 14, the Kyalami based group has decontaminated the equivalent of 668 football fields, for a total of 3 496 996 square metres. The decontamination project is entirely orchestrated and funded by the group and it's members. Ronald Lamola on prison overcrowding, rehabilitation & equipping inmates with skills Justice minister Ronald Lamola on Friday afternoon briefed the media about the decision to grant parole to 19,000 prisoners in an effort to ease overcrowding in prisons and curb the spread of Covid-19 among officers and inmates. The parole dispensation will apply to low-risk offenders and excludes inmates serving terms for serious crimes including child abuse and sexual offences.