May 30 2020 - 13:07 'You better have a receipt to prove your cigarettes weren't stolen or bought illegally': Cele Police minister Bheki Cele has explained that people carrying cigarettes will have to produce receipts for them. “If you are having it in your pocket whether in large or small quantities we would like to see the evidence of where you got it,” he said on Saturday. Cele said police had the right to ask people for a receipt and that this was done to ensure the cigarettes were not purchased illegally or stolen. May 30 2020 - 11:47 Sports minister Mthethwa: Football and rugby can resume fitness training Minister of Sports‚ Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa has clarified that professional contact sports such as football and rugby can resume fitness training only‚ exercising strict regulations laid out in the new level three national lockdown regulations. The regulations of South Africa’s move from level four to three of the phased exit from the lockdown on Monday have cleared the return for non-contact sports events such as tennis‚ athletics‚ and cricket to continue behind closed doors. Mthethwa announced the new regulations pertaining to sport in a press conference on Saturday morning and the conditions under which certain sports can resume. May 30 2020 - 11:02 ANC slams 'racist' attacks on Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma The ANC has called on police to take action against social media user Danie Herselman for an alleged racist post aimed at minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. This comes after Herselman allegedly replied to a post by another user who posted a status update on Facebook questioning why Dlamini-Zuma was in cabinet. “How did we end up with another Zuma? Did she get SA in the divorce settlement?” a Facebook user by the name of Andre Scott wrote. May 30 2020 - 10:56 600 artists and creatives thrown a Covid-19 lifeline Arts and culture minister Nathi Mthethwa said that nearly 600 artists and creatives had been paid from the department’s R150m relief fund to assist artists, athletes and technical personnel. Mthethwa was speaking at a press briefing on Saturday, to expand on the interventions of his department in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Today, not only are we faced with the challenge of unifying Africa, we are also faced with the challenge of beating Covid-19. There is no time more prudent than now to show solidarity to one another as Africans,” he said. 'Athletes can start training from Monday':  Nathi Mthethwa Sports, arts and culture minister Nathi Mthethwa said athletes can resume training when the country moves to level 3 lockdown on Monday. He also revealed that nearly 600 artists and creatives had been paid from the department’s R150m relief fund to assist artists, athletes, technical personnel. National coronavirus command council ministers to brief SA on level 3 lockdown plans Three ministers who serve in the national coronavirus command council are expected to brief South Africa on Saturday about their departments' plans as the country moves to level 3 lockdown on Monday. WATCH | The 'tobacco tango' — inside the illicit cigarette trade In a dingy convenience store in the Cape Town city centre, a man sitting in the dark behind an unlit counter offers a pack of Mega Blue cigarettes for about R180. He is wearing no mask, and neither are some of the customers strolling in and out. Government regulations are no longer respected at this corner store with the banning of cigarette sales and TimesLIVE journalists are pretending to buy something which is now more difficult to get than dagga. 'If they die, they die alone,' says heartbroken Cape Town nurse “I saw on social media someone had commented that nurses are dying because ‘they don’t use their PPE properly’. I just went and had a good cry. People have no idea what we’re going through.” These are the words of June Bradbury, a nurse in Cape Town who is witnessing first-hand the “new normal” at hospitals as Covid-19 spreads in the province and country — while many still deny that this is a crisis situation.