In the rush for treatments and vaccines, names of existing medications are flying about, with some even flying off the shelves. The Covid-19 pandemic has put the lay public at the mercy of their own ignorance as they try get their hands on drugs being trialed by scientists, and punted by presidents. "No person is allowed to use public transport if they are not wearing a face mask. It is now law." This is according to transport minister Fikile Mbalula, who was outlining the new rules around transport under level 4 restrictions. Public transport can operate from 5am until 7pm, with a "grace period" of one hour in the afternoon to complete their trips and drop off passengers. "This includes minibus-taxis, buses, metered taxis, e-hailing services, charter and shuttle services. No public transport is allowed on the road between 8pm and 5am. Sanitisation principles currently applicable to public transport vehicles and facilities remain," said Mbalula. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula said on Friday that while transport was an enabler of economic activity and provided access to sical amenities, it was also "a potent instrument capable of spreading the Covid-19 virus far and wide". He was speaking at a briefing about the new rules and regulations around level 4 of the country's nationwide lockdown. He said not everyone would like these rules, but they were vital to ensure that the transport sector was not responsible for spreading the illness. Domestic and international flights will remain banned under level 4, said Mbalula. However, said he said that once the lockdown was reduced to level 2, then only would the country's airspace be open. "Once the alert level moves to level 3, limited movement of scheduled domestic flights will be allowed. It is only when the country’s alert level reaches level 2, that we will fully open our airspace and allow movement of both domestic and international flights," he said. When it came to the Gautrain, operations would be "gradually re-introduced", covering eight of the nine stations - with the airport service excluded. "An appropriate load factor will be applied by all operators based on their seating and standing arrangements, according to 50% standard coach occupancy. Gautrain will mark out areas of the station to demarcate where to stand and queue appropriately, based on one passenger per square metre. "The Gautrain seating arrangement will consist alternate seats to allow regulated spacing and control based on average one passenger per square metre," said Mbalula. However, Mbalula said that there would be "no trains on Monday, that must be absolutely clear". "PRASA will undertake the compulsory testing of the rolling stock during the level 4 period and only resume with a limited service once the National Coronavirus Command Council declares the risk-adjustment to level 3, with the return of the Pienaarspoort line in Tshwane and the Southern line in Cape Town," he said. Police have confirmed they are investigating whether KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala contravened the Disaster Management Act when he held a gathering in Clairwood, south of Durban, on Monday. National police spokesman Brig Vish Naidoo was not immediately available to comment, but on Friday morning he told Eyewitness News  police were looking into Zikhala's alleged breach of the lockdown regulations. Two funerals. Fifty-four infections, including three children. One death. A sobering picture has emerged of how burials in KwaDwesi and Zwide account for a staggering number of infections in Nelson Mandela Bay. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the Bay stood at 298 on Wednesday. This was as 167 people who had been in contact with the mourners had also tested positive. It is not clear how many people live in Nelson Mandela Bay. Everywhere, nurses have found themselves in a situation they could never have imagined happening in 2020: being forced to care for highly infectious patients with little or no personal protective equipment (PPE). For the first time in decades, the bulk of the working class in South Africa celebrated  Workers Day behind closed doors at home due to the coronavirus pandemic. They came on foot, walking with canes and dogs, wearing brightly coloured running shoes, on skateboards and bicycles. Joggers, cyclists and casual walkers donned their takkies and ventured out in numbers on sidewalks, streets and pathways across the country early on Friday, taking advantage of the eased lockdown regulations after being cooped up at home for weeks. Residents soaked up the sun and savoured the salty sea air on Durban’s promenade, exercising their freedom during the narrow 6am to 9am window of opportunity. Finance minister Tito Mboweni says he does not support the continued ban on alcohol and cigarette sales. At the same time, Sars boss Edward Kieswetter says that in one month SA has lost R1,5bn in potential sin taxes. Pupils in some grades may return to school as late as September, says basic education minister Angie Motshekga. Also, kids in quintile 1-5 will get face masks, she says, contradicting her director-general. With the country going into level 4 of lockdown from Friday, it could see more people heading out to the shops — but experts from the University of Johannesburg warn that social distancing  must be observed. Social distancing is regarded as one of the best ways to prevent a rapid increase in the number of infections.