Like a wily bootlegger peddling contraband under lockdown, Porsche was creatively defiant when it deployed the original 911 Targa. Hear me out. You might recall there was a time when America was the undisputed global hegemon. Its market preferences dictated automotive trends on other continents. Its sneezes reverberated. During the 1960s, among the agenda-setting discussions under way, was the prospect of banning the convertible car. The national transportation department was reported to have been mulling over the safety aspects of open-air motoring with increasing alarm. Cars were getting faster after all - to the point where the leisurely idylls of wind-tousled hair became more like a high-velocity dance with death. In their eyes, anyway. With the looming possibility of such a prescriptive approach, your favourite Stuttgart-based maker of sports cars delivered an elegantly subversive riposte that might have just supplanted the coolness of a traditional convertible altogether. The 1965 911 Targa incorporated the structure and rigidity of a fixed hoop, where the B-pillars would have been on the regular coupé. To deliver an essential dose of Vitamin D, it relied on the simplicity of a removable panel above the heads of driver and passenger while a wraparound rear window offered a modicum of insulation. The moniker was derived from the renowned Targa Florio endurance race in the mountains of Sicily, at which Porsche had enjoyed its share of triumphs. On that note, time for some clarity: defunct British car maker Triumph was one of the brands that beat Porsche to the detachable roof setup with its 1961 TR4. In 1957 coach builders Vignale produced an iteration of the Fiat 1200 employing the ingenious ceiling solution. There was also the dainty Toyota Sports 800 birthed in the same year as the Targa. So, while Porsche never invented the concept, they certainly popularised it in addition to stamping a name on the configuration. This year sees a continuation of the story as the brand has released its latest 911 (992) in Targa format. The South African arm of the brand confirmed that it will arrive on our shores in the last quarter of 2020. Pricing is yet to be announced. All-wheel drive is the default, with the range comprising the standard 4 derivative and slightly spicier 4S counterpart. Both models employ a boosted six-cylinder boxer unit with a 2981cc displacement as featured in the 992 Carrera 4 and 4S coupés that were launched locally in 2019. In the case of the 4, the motor is good for 283kW, 450Nm and a claimed 0-100km/h sprint time of 4.4 seconds. Meanwhile, the 4S packs a smidgen more, with 331kW, 530Nm and a purported dash of 3.8 seconds. Oh, these acceleration times apply to the models equipped with the eight-speed, dual-clutch automatic transmission (PDK if you speak Porsche). An old-fashioned manual with seven forward gears can be had, catering for the committed enthusiasts with the resolve to exercise freedoms of the left calf muscle. But that indulgence is exclusively for the more potent 4S - and is a no-cost option. Under the skin, the all-wheel drive system packs a water-cooled clutch and differential unit, with reinforced discs that, according to Porsche, offer greater robustness and a higher load capacity than before. With power sent to the front axle, the added traction benefits ought to deliver true assurance on those more vigorous stints down your favourite pass. Factor in the electronic differential-lock for the rear axle (standard in 4S, optional on 4) plus the included Wet Mode and you have a machine that, on paper anyway, appears unshakeable in most hands. Anchorage is served by 330mm brake discs in the Targa 4 (350mm in the 4S), while a ceramic composite setup can be had for more money. Now, let us move on to the elaborate weatherproofing that sets it apart from its more conventional brethren. Roof operation takes 19 seconds to open or close - electronically operated, obviously. That signature transformation begins with the rear glass window, which raises, tilts, tucks back and allows the fabric attire to slink aft, contorting into a Z-shape as it folds behind the rear seats. The Targa hoop and window revert to their default positions. For further hairstyle protection, a (manually erected) wind deflector is part of the mix. Inside, the Targa benefits from all the enhancements that debuted in its Carrera counterpart. That includes a fascia design harking back to the cleaner, button-sparse layouts of 911 models from the earlier lineage. All while delivering on the expectancies of a modern user, thanks to the Porsche Communication Management (PCM) system brimming with digital conveniences. An interesting option is a special leather package that aims to invoke the character of the classic 930-series 911 Turbo. The selection comprises two-tone combinations in shades like Graphite Blue and Mojave Beige or Slate Grey and Iceland Green. So, with that in mind, we had to ask … will 2020 see the revival of the Turbo Targa juxtaposition, as seen with forebear with the flamboyant tea tray rear spoiler? "For now, there are no plans," a company man told us. Optimistically, we choose to latch onto the "for now" bit of that statement.