Nine out of 10 businesses polled have recorded a reduced turnover since the coronavirus pandemic hit SA, Stats SA's Covid-19 business impact survey has revealed. Stats SA conducted the survey between April 13 and 21, asking companies how the pandemic was affecting their operations. Just over one-third (36%) of firms indicated that they were laying off staff in the short term as a measure to cope. At least four senior citizens who were infected with Covid-19 have died in Cape Town frail-care homes. Residents and staff from Nazareth House and Highlands House, both in Vredehoek on the slopes of Table Mountain, are reeling after the deaths. A Nazareth House resident died on Friday, bringing the total number of people who died at the facility to three, and at Highlands House a resident died early this month. The 2020 Durban July will take place this year‚ but as a broadcast-only event behind closed doors‚ the organisers have announced. The race event will be held at Durban’s Greyville Race Course on a proposed date of Saturday‚ July 25‚ organisers said in a statement. This represents a marked departure for horse racing’s premier event. UN investigators said on Thursday they deeply regretted Burundi's expulsion of World Health Organisation experts who were supporting the country's response to the coronavirus pandemic. Burundi booted out the experts as the country prepares to go to the polls on Wednesday to choose a new president, parliamentarians and local officials. The UN Commission of Inquiry on Burundi said in a statement that it "deeply regretted the recent decision by the government to declare persona non grata the country representative of WHO and three of its experts". The investigators, tasked by the United Nations Human Rights Council with probing alleged violations and abuses in the country since 2015, also voiced their concerns about the authorities' decision not to apply WHO recommendations on physical distancing "to prevent the spread of the coronavirus during the electoral campaign". Burundi's foreign ministry, in a letter to the WHO's Africa headquarters and seen by AFP on Wednesday, said the UN agency's representative in Burundi and his three colleagues "are declared persona non grata and as such, must leave the territory of Burundi" by Friday. A Burundian official told AFP on condition of anonymity: "They are expelled and the health minister has totally excluded WHO, accusing it of unacceptable interference in its management of the coronavirus." - AFP Gauteng premier David Makhura on Thursday announced the changing geographical locations of Covid-19 infections in the province, saying hotspots had been moving to densely populated areas such as townships. He said there had been clear signs of emerging hotspots in Soweto, Orange Farm, Alexandra, Kathorus, KwaThema, Tembisa, Ivory Park, Soshanguve, Ennerdale, Vanderbijlpark, Pretoria West, Houghton and Yeoville. “Covid-19 is in the townships, this is message we want to convey. Our people in the townships should not think that Covid-19 is not for them it’s somewhere else,” he said. “There is a task team in place that has been tasked with looking for new land for burial and to increase the capacity of crematoriums. A Mahikeng doctor in the North West who tested positive for Covid-19 saw 104 patients at his private practice, the provincial department of health said on Thursday. His office has since been closed and decontaminated. DA interim leader John Steenhuisen on Thursday said his party would fight to overturn every decision and regulation that is either irrational or immoral until “we have done what President Ramaphosa could not do: end the hard lockdown”. “There are no rational justifications for a military-enforced curfew, a restriction on e-commerce business and a limited three-hour window for exercise,” said Steenhuisen. The lengthy queue stretched along Long Street between Strand and Riebeek Street. Desperation was visible on most faces. A vaccine for the novel coronavirus could be ready in a year's time under an “optimistic” scenario, based on trials that are under way, the European Medicines Agency said on Thursday. The Amsterdam-based EU agency also played down fears expressed by the WHO that the virus might never go away, saying it would be “surprised” if a vaccine was not found eventually. World leaders past and present insisted on Thursday that any eventual Covid-19 vaccines and treatments should be made available to everyone, free of charge. South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan were among more than 140 signatories of a letter saying any vaccine should not be patented while the science should be shared between nations. The World Health Assembly, the policy-setting body of the UN's World Health Organisation, holds its annual general meeting next week. The signatories called on the WHA to rally behind the cause. Corruption Watch has written to the National Treasury raising concerns about the risk of corruption and the lack of transparency relating to emergency procurement during the lockdown. After 48 days in lockdown and 19 days of silence from the president, Cyril Ramaphosa finally addressed the nation after mounting calls for him to provide an update on the government's plans regarding coronavirus. Basic education minister Angie Motshekga is expected to convene a meeting to consider the progress made towards reopening schools across the country. Department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga ​​said the main purpose for the meeting will be to get an update on the work done by provinces, including the deliveries of Covid-19 essentials to help curb the spread of the virus when schools reopen. Mhlanga said provinces indicated on Monday that they needed more time while they wait for the deliveries of personal protection equipment from the supplier. Adherence & compliance to stringent safety measures inclusive of effective execution of social distancing, wearing of masks and disinfection of buses and stations is critical. Myths, misinformation and misunderstanding deter South Africans from getting tested for Covid-19. A doctor examines why many are not taking the vital test, and explains what to do​. The Cmore app that SA is using to record screening data and assist in tracking potential coronavirus cases is the same app used by the country's game parks to help curb animal poaching. This is according to the US science magazine Scientific American. On Wednesday, the department reported 19 more coronavirus infections – 10 inmates and nine officials - bringing the total number of infections to 355. “The Western Cape recorded 11 new cases, the Eastern Cape five, Gauteng two and KwaZulu-Natal one,” said department spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo. “The number of recoveries remain at 92.” “This new phase will require each of us to change our own behaviour in profound ways. There needs to be a fundamental shift in our thinking and our way of life. We need to take personal responsibility for our own health and the health of others,” he said. Being stuck indoors has created a higher demand for ethnic hair care and other beauty products as people have a lot of time to do their own hair. Tshepo Mekoa, founder and CEO of Brima Logistics, which employs more than 100 people, struggled to come to terms with breaking the news — which would leave 40 families struggling. The Limpopo education department has been accused of “robbing” poor schools by asking them to use a large chunk of the funds for normal running costs to buy Covid-19 essentials.