Five cruise ships will call at the Port of Durban over the next few days to refuel and restock under strict Covid-19 safety protocols. Transnet said on Sunday that SA ports had been considering, on a case-by-case basis, requests from passenger liners urgently seeking permission to dock in order to refuel, restock provisions or to repatriate SA crew. SA Breweries (SAB) said on Sunday it had put forward several proposals to government on the regulated sale of alcohol under level 3 lockdown to avoid scenes witnessed in India where consumers clamoured to buy alcohol when the booze ban was lifted. The sale of alcohol during the lockdown has been a highly contentious issue with many arguing that the ban, coupled with travel restrictions, has seen a marked decline in admissions to emergency rooms, freeing up critical hospital infrastructure. Proponents have also stressed the ban has helped maintain social distancing. Two people died and more than 10 are in hospital after drinking a home-brewed concoction in a village near Stutterheim in the Eastern Cape. A health department employee said on Saturday: “Some are now vomiting while some are dizzy and many are weak. This happened after a home-brewed beer was prepared and these people drank it.” There are 236 officials working for the department of correctional services and 473 inmates who have contracted Covid-19. This brings the total number of cases to 709, the department said in an update on the impact of the coronavirus. Matilda Maneli, wife of Amathole district municipality mayor and ANC regional chairperson Khanyile 'KC' Maneli has died of Covid-19 complications. The ANC in the Amathole region sent their condolences to the mayor. Five families spoke to the Sunday Times about the loved ones they’ve lost in the pandemic, and the holes in the lives they have left behind The tourism sector has pleaded with President Cyril Ramaphosa to allow hotels and restaurants to operate under level 3 as it looks to avert job losses of up to 600,000 by September. As part of meetings this week in the run-up to the proposed move to level 3 on June 1, Ramaphosa on Friday met representatives of the tourism industry. They outlined the sector's readiness should it be given the green light to open next month. SA will experience the third highest toll in Africa from the coronavirus pandemic, the World Health Organisation (WHO) predicts. A report by the WHO regional office for Africa, which models the potential effects of widespread community transmission of Covid-19 on the continent, predicts that as many as 24-million South Africans could be infected with the virus. About 20-million of these cases could be non-symptomatic. For two days Phumla Saule could barely sleep. A colleague at the Khayelitsha supermarket where she works had tested positive for Covid-19. Saule, 32, went for a test at the Town Two Clinic this week, and found the queue full of colleagues and other retail workers. "Our jobs have become a source of the dreaded Covid-19," she said. Labour unions, taxi associations and organised business have called on the government to consider staggering working hours during level 3 of the lockdown to prevent congestion - and increased risk - at public transport depots. This is in the wake of the government's decision to relax restrictions, allowing hundreds of thousands to return to work as sectors of the economy resume operations. Most South African workers rely on trains, taxis and buses to get to work. It is becoming clear the Solidarity Fund's food parcel distribution programme is no longer sustainable, with a feeding strategy rethink needed as growing queues of hungry people become increasingly at risk to Covid-19 exposure. Instead, the fund's interim CEO, Nomkhita Nqweni, said it will now focus on sustainable food security models. Inadequate rural testing and a total disregard for Covid-19 regulations by communities have created a perfect storm for the surge in infections in the Eastern Cape, experts say. Coronavirus cases in the province reached 2,459 this week, with 53 reported deaths. About 600 parents who are afraid to send their children back to school this week bombarded a Facebook group with home-schooling inquiries. This was a day after basic education minister Angie Motshekga said parents were free to home school their children if they “still feel anxious and doubtful” about sending them back to class. Co-operative governance minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has tabled draft level 3 regulations that propose lifting the ban on alcohol sales, but extending the prohibition on cigarette sales. The regulations also propose opening up all sectors of the economy from June 1 except hotels, restaurants, bars, gyms and other recreational facilities. The issue of tobacco and alcohol sales split President Cyril Ramaphosa's National Command Council (NCC) down the middle, igniting so much debate that a meeting to discuss the regulations lasted five hours, with no final decision taken on tobacco sales, insiders told the Sunday Times. SA is in a race against time to build more than 15,000 ventilators in a matter of weeks to meet a predicted surge in Covid-19 cases. Yet the national ventilator project, launched amid fanfare by the department of trade & industry (DTI) almost two months ago, has yet to kick into top gear. The government acknowledged this week it was still deciding which of the six shortlisted companies it would give contracts to. The shockwaves from the possible loss of nearly 1-million formal jobs in Gauteng because of the lockdown will hit the country's economic growth and be felt by households in other provinces too, experts predict. In scenario planning around the effects of the lockdown on Gauteng, premier David Makhura this week warned that in the worst case, 2-million formal sector jobs could be lost.