More than 200,000 jobs will be lost in the Western Cape alone due to the hard lockdown and level 4 restrictions, even with the gradual lifting of restrictions over time. That was the stark warning on Friday by premier Alan Winde, who warned of an “unprecedented humanitarian disaster” unfolding as families, unable to work, were going hungry. “I want to be very clear on this point: a job is not just a nice-to-have. It is for many people the difference between putting food on the table, and starving. Job losses cannot simply be dismissed as a necessary outcome for the greater good. Job losses mean malnutrition, starvation, increases in crime and, in the long term, premature death.” Nearly 100,000 children born during the lockdown do not have birth certificates. Home affairs spokesperson Siya Qoza said all birth registrations stopped when the lockdown started but registration services had resumed a week ago. According to the Children's Institute at the University of Cape Town, an estimated 20,000 children are born every week in SA. With the initial birth registration freeze, the number of unregistered newborns could be in the region of 100,000. Mpumalanga police station shut as cop tests positive for the coronavirus A constable attached to the national public order police reserve unit in the Emalahleni municipal area of Mpumalanga has tested positive for Covid-19. As a result, the Witbank police station is no longer open to the public while health protocols are activated, the SA Police Service reported on Friday. “I can confirm that a constable attached to the national public order police reserve unit deployed at Witbank had tested positive for the Covid-19 virus,” said national spokesperson Brig Vish Naidoo. Prison official dies from coronavirus in Western Cape The department of correctional services (DCS) on Friday confirmed that a person employed at a Western Cape prison has died of the coronavirus. “The DCS is greatly pained and saddened to confirm the death of an official based in the Western Cape. We convey condolences to the family of the deceased and his colleagues,” said department spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo. The fatality was reported on Thursday. Gauteng records 61 new cases of Covid-19 Gauteng has 2,135 cases of Covid-19 after recording 61 new cases, the provincial department of health said on Friday. It also revealed that of the reported cases, 1,552 have recovered. Ramaphosa demonstrates air travel hygiene measure before boarding flight President Cyril Ramaphosa demonstrated how hygiene measures for travel may change once the ban on air travel has been gradually lifted. Here's what’s driving Covid-19 infections in Nelson Mandela Bay Shopping malls, SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) offices, funerals and private hospitals — these are the drivers of Covid-19 infections in Nelson Mandela Bay. Motherwell was singled out as the hotspot in the city, with 79 cases registered by Thursday. It is followed by KwaDwesi with 52 cases, reports HeraldLIVE. Court rules in favour of Collins Khosa family & declares all have right to life The high court in Pretoria on Friday declared that all people within SA are entitled to a number of rights which cannot be suspended, even during the Covid-19 state of disaster. These include the right to life, the right not to be tortured in any way and the right not to be treated or punished in an inhumane and cruel way. The court made these orders in an application brought by the family of Collins Khosa, the 41-year-old man who died after he was allegedly beaten by soldiers and metro police outside his home in Alexandra on April 10. Presidency plans cellphone app to complement hotline service to public The presidency has developed a cellphone application which will be launched in the current financial year for the public to lay complaints, make suggestions and report incidents. This is according to deputy minister in the presidency Thembi Siweya, who on Friday visited the presidential hotline team to check its effectiveness. The app will be downloadable from app stores. There will also be WhatsApp and SMS services. New DG of health is 'well equipped to tackle NHI & Covid-19 challenges' The national health department has appointed Dr Sandile Buthelezi as its incoming director-general. “Dr Buthelezi promises to bring a wealth of knowledge to the national department of health at a crucial epoch in the trajectory of South Africa’s health system,” the department said on Friday. “The lessons we’ve learnt from dealing with HIV in South Africa are coming in handy as we are dealing with Covid-19, specifically when it comes to community-based testing, screening and testing,” Buthelezi said. Feel good Friday as Sassa begins to distribute R350 unemployment grant The SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) says it has received more than 3.5-million applications for the Covid-19 social relief of distress (SRD) grant. Sassa said it had started taking applications on Monday. “As of Thursday, 3,585,040 applications were received. Of this, the largest number of applications were made using the USSD SMS line (3,294,949) and 204,434 on the website,” Sassa said in a statement. Surnames could dictate when you can buy booze: here is what you need to know The Liquor Traders Association of SA (LTASA) has submitted a detailed plan to government outlining protocols around the sale of alcohol during lockdown. The association, which represents 1,410 liquor stores that employ more than 14,000 people, recommended a system based on the surnames of consumers to maintain and ensure social distancing. From a dual income to dololo earnings: this couple's rent, food & chronic medication is at stake She has a rare autoimmune disease and can't afford the necessary blood tests. She's in the hotel industry and he works in fitness. So when lockdown regulations were implemented, both were hit hard by the sudden loss of income. Not only have they had to ask for relief on their bills, they only eat two small meals a day and have cut out critical medical care to save cash. Lockdown poses 'threat' to political, economic freedoms of South Africans The Institute of Race Relations (IRR) has warned that the “economic damage” from the lockdown will be catastrophic, particularly for poor South Africans. “Now that it has become clear that the lockdown is not a temporary phenomenon but a fixture for the foreseeable future, it is all the more vital to examine the threat it poses to the political and economic freedoms of all South Africans,” said Dr Anthea Jeffery, head of policy at the institute. Youthful population will protect Africa, but 190,000 could still die from Covid-19: WHO Nearly a quarter of a billion Africans will catch coronavirus during the first year of the pandemic, and up to 190,000 will die unless urgent action is taken to control the infection. A model by the World Health Organisation (WHO) Africa office, published on Friday in the British Medical Journal Global Health, predicts a lower rate of exposure and viral spread than in other parts of the world, and up to 190,000 deaths. New policies clarify who must pay for Covid-19 tests People covered by medical schemes no longer have to pay for negative Covid-19 tests done in the private sector, as long as they are referred by a doctor or nurse. A Covid-19 test administered by Pathcare, Dis-Chem, or Ampath costs about R850 and it takes two to three days to get a result. A test through the state-owned National Health Laboratory Service is free to the patient, but the backlog for results is about a week. Ten thousand food parcels were handed out to residents “crippled by the economic consequences of the Covid-19 lockdown”, social activist Yusuf Abramjee said. The parcels included mealie meal, vegetables, face masks, sanitiser and soap. “I think the government is violating the rights of smokers by banning cigarettes. It is my money and health and I have a right to decide when to quit,” says Veli Hlongwane from Mzimhlophe in Soweto. “I do adhere to the rules of Covid-19 lockdown ... If a friend asks for a smoke I give because it is their risk not mine, but I don’t ask for a skyf any more,” he says. “The price of a Savannah fag jumped from R1.50 to R4 and the cheapest RG fag jumped from 50 cents to R3.50 ... I smoke three Savannah fags per day, which is R12 a day. The government should reconsider the ban of cigarettes,” says Hlongwane. Sandile Mtshali from Meadowlands zone 11, is a young spaza shop owner with a liquor licence. He says he has lost R25,000 in profits due to the ban of cigarettes and alcohol, and he has not received any assistance from the government financially. “I continued trading until I was arrested by police for selling fags and beer during the lockdown. I’ve learnt my lesson and I won’t be on the wrong side of the law again,” says Mtshali. A lifelong smoker has penned a letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa, pleading with him to lift the ban on the sale and distribution of cigarettes and tobacco products. The letter was also shared with TimesLIVE. Some companies in SA are allegedly refusing to apply for the government’s temporary employer-employee relief scheme (Ters), leaving workers cash-strapped in the lockdown. The SA Payroll Association (Sapa) said it has received several complaints from employees whose salaries have been cut, but their employers have not tried to claim from the labour department’s Ters. According to the association's president, Arlene Leggat, many employers who have not applied for these funds believed that they would not receive them. “There is a lot of negativity about the Ters and the government’s ability to process payments. The new coronavirus could kill 150,000 people in Africa in a year unless urgent action is taken, according to a WHO modelling study that says nearly a quarter of a billion people will be infected. Authors of the research, published Friday in the journal BMJ Global Health, predicted a lower infection rate than in other parts of the world like Europe and the US, with fewer severe cases and deaths. But while they said many African nations had been swift to adopt containment measures, they warned that health systems could still quickly become overwhelmed. Five US sailors have been evacuated with coronavirus from an aircraft carrier despite extensive screening as the warship prepares its return to sea following a major outbreak, a US official confirmed Thursday. After testing positive but asymptomatic, the five spent two weeks in quarantine in Guam where the nuclear-powered USS Theodore Roosevelt is docked New mothers in Johannesburg have expressed frustration at being unable to get their babies registered, due to either long queues or closed Home Affairs offices. The lockdown has pretty much killed the freewheelin' spirit in SA. With incomes slashed, car lovers are doing smart trade-ins and going for cheaper models.