SA Revenue Service (Sars) commissioner Edward Kieswetter says it is time government considers lifting lockdown regulations in those parts of the country where infection rates are not high in order for economic activities to resume. “It is clear that we do not need a countrywide lockdown, there are provinces where the infection rates are low and clearly you can free up economic activity in those areas ... The time is ready to move from a countrywide lockdown to a more calibrated lockdown that treats every ward on its own merits, that is the essence of a risk-based approach.” During an interview on eNCA Kieswetter also revealed that over 400 Sars employees had donated part of their salaries towards the Solidarity Fund to help fight the scourge of the coronavirus in SA. Detachments of the controversial Cuban Medical Brigade have completed their two-week quarantine and will start work around the country this week. On Saturday, North West health MEC Madoda Sambatha welcomed 13 Cuban doctors who will be deployed across four districts in the province. The doctors include specialists in family medicine, epidemiology and biostatistics and health care technologists. Platinum mining group Implats has temporarily suspended operations at its Marula operation in Limpopo after detecting a “cluster” of positive Covid-19 cases. The group said on Saturday that 19 positive cases had been detected during the week after stringent and comprehensive screening, testing and tracing protocols. All of them were asymptomatic — meaning the individuals tested exhibited no apparent coronavirus symptoms. Zimbabwe will remain on “level 2” of its Covid-19 lockdown indefinitely, President Emmerson Mnangagwa said on Saturday. In his address, the president said he was happy that the country has done fairly well considering that it was estimated that by the end of April the situation would have been disastrous. “Government noted with satisfaction the continued positive impact of the lockdown measures our country has implemented since March 30, to date. Initial estimates indicated that by April 29, Zimbabwe would have about 1,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19,” he said. President Cyril Ramaphosa will onSatur day chair a meeting of the President's Coordinating Council (PCC) to deliberate preparations for moving most of the country to Level 3 of lockdown. Two British nationals were fined R50,000 each for illegally entering SA during the lockdown. On Friday James Hackett and Erkan Bali pleaded guilty to defeating or obstructing the administration of justice and contravening the Immigration Act when they illegally entered SA on April 11, disregarding all Covid-19 regulations and directions in terms of the management of foreign nationals entering the country.