The decision to reopen places of worship (under strict conditions) makes no sense since scientists from across the world have warned that these “superspreader” events should be stopped. Meanwhile, public open spaces such as beaches and parks remain closed. It appears that a small number of "superspreading" events were responsible for the largest number of corona infections worldwide. Researchers at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the Alan Turing Institute found in their study that the level of infection can be curbed drastically by putting a stop to such events. Many of these superspreaders were religious gatherings all over the world. Read more about this and other Level 3 regulations, plus other corona-related news and analysis in this week's edition of Afrikaans digital weekly Vrye Weekblad. Places of worship are normally the ideal environments for the virus to spread. First because worship is mostly observed indoors and we know that most superspreading events happen indoors. People tend to huddle together at places of worship, hug, talk loudly and sing and we also know now that even talking loudly can produce enough aerosol to spread the virus, and the droplets can hang in the air for a couple of minutes. Not all among the South African religious community are convinced that this is a good idea. Reverend Peter Storey, president of the SA Council of Churches, said reopening places of worship is dangerous, the ZCC announced that it would remain closed and the Muslim Judicial Council is discouraging the reopening of mosques. Claudia Mangwegape has been working hard since the outbreak of the pandemic to keep people safe and keep them home. She is concerned now. “After all this hardship and sacrifice ... I hope it wasn't all in vain.” CAN TOURISM BE REVIVED? | The tourism industry is on its knees and it will have to rethink its model and adapt if it wants to survive. FREE TO READ – ASK THE DEATH DOULA | While the whole world is having an existential crisis, a death doula shares his words of wisdom: work less, love more, live  slower. ESSENTIAL READING | Not everyone can do their work with Zoom and a WhatsApp group. We spoke to a few of these hands-on essential workers about their lives and fears. FEAR AND LOATHING IN CORONA TIMES | The EFF is not doing so well during lockdown, Cyril's ode to Bob, and what's going on with Princess Lindiwe Sisulu and wounded gang? FREE TO READ – BLOOMING BRILLIANT | Good old malvas (pelargonium) that bloom everywhere, form your gran's stoep to the balconies of Europe, are as South African as malva pudding.