Doctors and nurses downed tools on Wednesday at Mpilisweni Hospital in Sterkspruit, Eastern Cape, demanding personal protective equipment (PPE). This was the facility’s second protest since the Covid-19 lockdown. Last month, nurses and doctors stopped work for a day in protest. They returned to work after management promised them PPE. That protective gear was supposed to be delivered last week, Tuesday. The KwaZulu-Natal education department has denounced a video circulating on social media of MEC Kwazi Mshengu asking teachers not to return to school. In a statement issued on Saturday the department clarified that the video was old and was being circulated by “mischievous people” hell-bent on causing further confusion. After SA’s first coronavirus case on March 5, President Cyril Ramaphosa has taken quick and decisive action to combat the spread of this deadly virus. But there is another killer that has reared its head during this time: misinformation about Covid-19. The government’s swift, transparent, multisectoral response and respect for health expert advice has been compared to that of Taiwan and Singapore. Many presumed that these Asian countries would be worst-hit due to their proximity and trade ties with China yet they have effectively managed to contain the outbreak. Anti-viral drug remdesivir cuts recovery times in coronavirus patients, according to the full results of a trial published Friday night, three weeks after America's top infectious diseases expert said the study showed the medication has "clear-cut" benefits. Complete results from the research, which was carried out by US government agency the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), were published by leading medical periodical the New England Journal of Medicine. The United States authorized the emergency use of remdesivir in hospitals on May 1, followed by Japan, while Europe is considering following suit. The study found that remdesivir, injected intravenously daily for 10 days, accelerated the recovery of hospitalized COVID-19 patients compared to a placebo in clinical tests on just over a thousand patients across 10 countries. -AFP A group of SA artists and musicians, among 93 South Africans who were stranded in Turkey for two months after the announcement of the national lockdown, are back on home soil. According to a joint statement issued by the department of sport, arts and culture and the department of international relations and co-operation (Dirco), the group of 29 landed at the OR Tambo International Airport on Friday night. WHO declared Latin America "a new epicenter" of the coronavirus pandemic as US President Donald Trump ramped up pressure on state and local governments to speed up the reopening of the reeling American economy. Surges in infections across much of Central and South America have driven the global case count to nearly 5.2 million, with more than 337,000 deaths, even as hard-hit Europe and the US cautiously move into a recovery phase. The death toll in Brazil has soared past 20,000, and with 310,000 reported cases, it has the third-biggest caseload in the world behind the US and Russia -AFP The largest study yet of Covid-19 patients has found that the main risks for severe illness or death are age, male sex, obesity and underlying illness. The risk of death increases in obese men who are over 50 and heart, lung, liver and kidney disease, according to a study in the British Medical Journal of more than 43,000 patients admitted to hospital in the UK. The plight of newspaper hawkers under lockdown has prompted two non-profit organisations to team up to provide humanitarian relief to them. “Since the lockdown started, newspapers hawkers have disappeared from our streets, neglected and forgotten. “They work in an informal sector, and do not enjoy the state-regulated minimum wage nor do they have access to the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF). These are breadwinners for their families; the foot soldiers for the newsrooms to keep us informed on the happenings in the country and world,” said Castro Ngobese. Teenager Malikah Swail has pleaded with President Cyril Ramaphosa for schools not to reopen on June 1. The matric pupil from Elsies River High School in the Western Cape penned an open letter to Ramaphosa, basic education minister Angie Motshekga and deputy minister Enver Surty, expressing fears that she, her teachers or classmates could fall victim to Covid-19.