One of South Africa’s largest independent moving companies, Eezi Move, on Monday applied for an urgent interdict in the Pretoria high court to enable the company - and the removals industry as a whole -  to resume business and, in so doing, end their clients’ “unimaginable hardship”. The removals industry, along with thousands of South Africans who are desperate to move into or out of their rented or owned homes, had been expecting this to be allowed by the government by May 1. But the level 4 lockdown regulations published late last Thursday made no provision for relocations. Various philanthropic entities linked to billionaire Allan Gray have made R180m available to help with the economic, educational and medical shortages created by the coronavirus pandemic. “The contribution will look to not only make an immediate impact on the crisis but will also take a long-term approach in assisting those South Africans affected,” said the donors. Zimbabwe downgraded to “level 2” on Monday after 35 days of its Covid-19 lockdown, returning to slightly more normal day-to-day life. Level 2 is set to run for two weeks. Thereafter, everything could return to business as usual. In the meantime, businesses are operating from 8am to 3pm, with the hope that a ZW$18bn stimulus package promised to them by the government will be disbursed. Justice minister Ronald Lamola on Monday explained the government's much-criticised decision to introduce a nine-hour lockdown curfew and a three-hour jogging window. Lamola defended the government's decisions, saying it was "not the state stretching its muscle". These regulations, said the minister, were meant to ensure that people did not abuse the easing of the regulations and to assist law enforcement in doing their work with ease. After being threatened with arrest and turned away from delivering food parcels at Emalahleni a week ago, Enlightened Christian Gathering leader Prophet Shepherd Bushiri has donated food to the ANC at Ehlanzeni region to be distributed to families in need. Delivering the food, deputy convener of the ANC at Ehlanzeni region, Ngrayi Ngwenya, said though politicians were not allowed to do the food delivery, the food he delivered was from his pocket and that of Bushiri. EFF leader in Mpumalanga, Collen Sedibe, said though Ngwenya was giving the food to everyone, he senses seclusion of people based on party lines and also opened a case against Ngwenya, saying he breached  lockdown regulations. Joggers and cyclists have come out in swarms to make use of public places like the Sea Point Promenade in Cape Town, Delta Park in Johannesburg and the Durban beachfront. With exercise limited to a three-hour gap from 6am to 9am, crowding in such exercise hot spots has ensued. But it has been posed that the conventional 1.5m-2m physical distancing gap between people is possibly not enough when walking, jogging or riding - thanks to the slipstream of the person in front. Residents of Gcilima, a semi-rural area on KwaZulu-Natal's south coast, are caught in a political food fight after a member of the IFP was allegedly stopped from delivering food to the area. IFP MP and national spokesperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa has claimed he was stopped by an ANC ward councillor, Richard Nyembezi, from delivering food parcels to 50 needy families in the area on Sunday. Ohio and other US states on Monday planned to ease more restrictions on businesses even as President Donald Trump acknowledged that as many as 100,000 Americans could die in a pandemic that has also decimated the US economy. In Ohio, Governor Mike DeWine was allowing construction and manufacturing to reopen on Monday, and letting office workers return. Retail shops and many consumer services were due to resume operations on May 12. To reopen, businesses must meet state requirements that workers wear face coverings and stay at least six feet apart, and employers sanitise their workplaces. DeWine has urged as many workers as possible to work from home. Correctional services minister Ronald Lamola has ducked questions on the government's alleged plan to release 19,000 low-risk prisoners to respond to the challenge of social distancing in the country's overcrowded prisons. Lamola said the claim that prisoners would be released was based on a "leak" and "speculations" which he was not going to fuel any further. An ANC councillor from Limpopo has been arrested for allegedly selling and issuing fake permits for people to cross provinces. Cybert Kabelo Ramodisha, 36, appeared at the Giyani magistrate's court on Monday. He was arrested on Friday at Makgakgapaji village after a tip-off from community members. Belgium began a cautious easing of its coronavirus lockdown on Monday, allowing some businesses to reopen while obliging passengers on public transport to wear a mask under a new rule to reduce the risk of any new outbreak. The country of 11.5-million people, among the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, has until now only permitted food shops and pharmacies to operate throughout the crisis, and more recently home-improvement and garden centres. On Monday, 150,000-300,000 people were expected to resume work in businesses that do not have contact with consumers, such as manufacturers, although remote working is still encouraged. At the same time, a government-appointed group of largely medical experts was working on a plan for a possible return to tight lockdown if loosening steps led to a new spike in infections. - Reuters Hanover Park in Cape Town has been plagued by gangsterism, drugs and unemployment for a long time - and now the community is facing a hunger crisis since the lockdown started. But the NPO Moms Who Care has put a smile on the faces of hundreds of children and vulnerable people in the Cape Flats. The group has been feeding up to 800 residents since the lockdown started, mostly out of their own pockets. The Fair-Trade Independent Tobacco Association (Fita) is pursuing legal action to set aside disaster regulations and declare tobacco products as essential goods. On May 12, the court is expected to hear the application to declare that tobacco products fall into the category of agro-processing and constitute permitted goods and for the export of the products to be permitted. On May 26 Fita will be seeking an order declaring cigarettes and tobacco products are essential goods. Fita, on that date, also wants the court to set aside regulations passed in March prohibiting cigarette sales and an order declaring that the sale of tobacco products and cigarettes is lawful. KZN accounts for the third most Covid-19 cases in the country, with 1,076 people having tested positive for the virus as of Sunday. Last week Zikalala gave a breakdown of the number of confirmed cases in the province. Sport, arts and culture minister Nathi Mthethwa has expressed concern that many artists, athletes and technical personnel who applied to get a slice of the R150m relief fund did not succeed. Twenty-nine officials have tested positive for Covid-19 at Cape Town’s largest police station, according to a reliable source. The affected members are quarantined. On Sunday April 26, the first officer’s test results came back and he was informed he tested positive for the virus at 8am, which was two hours into his shift. According to the source, the member was sent home and the station immediately shut down and members were sent for testing. As thousands of workers returned to work on Monday, there was increased traffic on several  roads in Soweto, with measures put in place to manage public transport. Bus service Rea Vaya took a bold step to allow only commuters with valid permits to enter their stations and buses. This was evident in Thokoza Park, where people were turned back. The Protea magistrate's court in Soweto will be closed on Monday to be disinfected after a person working at the court tested positive for Covid-19. The justice department said all staff members who had contact with the person were self-isolating and the screening of all those staff members will take place on Tuesday. “The fact that we have progressed to level 4 does not mean regulations are no longer applying,” said Zikalala. "Overall, I am quite impressed and it’s all systems go. We will replicate this with Metrorail. Good elements out of this must be replicated that side,” he said. To ensure social distancing, seats in Gautrain carriages have been cordoned off and marks have been placed on the floors to ensure commuters adhere to distancing rules. Companies that have resumed operations during level 4 lockdown have implemented measures to prioritise the safety of their employees, a snap poll of Johannesburg firms showed on Monday. “The regulations we have put in place are founded on that commitment to life and dignity, and which justify – in these extreme circumstances – temporary restrictions on other rights, like freedom of movement and association.” More than 376,000 account holders affected by Covid-19 have taken advantage of payment relief across Absa's retail and business banking division in South Africa. This amounts to R5.8bn in cash-flow relief over three months for the bank's customers. The programme was launched on March 30, with the bank saying South Africans were experiencing "extreme financial pressure". DA leader John Steenhuisen, like others, is not backing the announcement by Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to ban cigarette sales during level 4 of lockdown. Durban port health authorities are waiting for the Covid-19 test results for a crewman aboard a bulk vehicle carrier before allowing the vessel to dock. South Africans were in for a surprise last week when Dlamini-Zuma announced that the government had decided not to lift the ban on cigarettes and tobacco products under the eased restrictions of level 4. At least 826 people have been arrested in KwaZulu-Natal since Friday when the country downgraded to level 4 of lockdown. KZN premier Sihle Zikalala revealed this during a briefing at a roadblock on the N3 at the Mariannhill Toll Plaza on Monday. Zikalala said the province would continue to make arrests of those found flouting regulations. Over the weekend, the hard lockdown eased into level 4 and saw joggers, cyclists and dog walkers flocking to popular spots in Cape Town and Durban. Under level 4, among other restrictions that have been lifted, people are allowed to exercise between 6am and 9am within a 5km radius from their homes. More than 1-million South Africans are expected to return to work under level 4 of the national lockdown on Monday. What seemed like a nightmare a few months ago is now reality. New infections in Cape Town’s crowded townships increased by up to 173% last week, and in some cases shot up by well over 20% a day. The Western Cape now has about 45% of SA’s confirmed Covid-19 cases and deaths. Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital is blazing a trail for neonatal units during the pandemic. It is readying to admit pregnant women with Covid-19 - and is now also ready to advise other facilities. Thousands signed an online petition launched by the Employer's Organisation for Hairdressing, Cosmetology and Beauty on Saturday, asking government to reconsider its decision. The announcement on Wednesday by cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma that the beauty industry will not be permitted to operate under level 4 of the lockdown came as a blow for business owners in the beauty industry. Solid fuels, including charcoal and wood, produce high levels of solid and liquid particles, and a Harvard University study has found that higher levels of microscopic particles were associated with higher death rates from Covid-19. Particles less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter — described by scientists as PM2.5 — are especially dangerous because they can make their way into the deepest part of the lungs and the bloodstream. About 50,000 workers in Joburg join millions who live off food parcels. But it’s not just the poor who are queuing. President Cyril Ramaphosa has explained that the decision to extend the ban of cigarette sales under the level 4 lockdown regulations was a collective decision of the national coronavirus command council (NCCC) following public consultation. “There has been much public comment on government’s decision to extend the prohibition on the sale of tobacco products into level 4. A decision like this is bound to be controversial, but it is wrong to suggest there are ministers or a president doing and saying whatever they want on this matter,” he said on Monday.