Premier Sihle Zikalala has called on the people of KwaZulu-Natal to show “great hospitality” to the 28 Cuban doctors deployed in the province to help fight Covid-19. “We call on all the people of KwaZulu-Natal to show the great hospitality that they are known for. And we call on them once more to know that without their co-operation and discipline, we will not overcome this enemy,” he said. A Chinese laboratory has been developing a drug it believes has the power to bring the coronavirus pandemic to a halt. The outbreak first emerged in China late last year before spreading across the world, prompting an international race to find treatments and vaccines. -AFP More than 5.01 million people have been reported to have been infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 327,383 have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. -Reuters He went from having several wedding shoots set up to now making R80 on a good day. And he needs all of that to support his family. This is the story of Mcebo Nzuza from Molweni, KwaZulu-Natal and the devastating impact the lockdown in SA has had on him. With nearly two months of limited economic activity Nzuza fears the businesses he worked hard to build in the past seven years may not survive. With Covid-19 cases rapidly spreading across the country, South Africans have been hearing a lot about hotspots, clusters and targeted testing lately. A home-grown cloud-enabled screening and communication app has been helping community health care workers in Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal mark hotspots seamlessly by recording live community screening in real time. Will the Western Cape move to a level 3 lockdown or will it remain on level 4? This is the question posed by many as some parts of the country are set to move at the end of May. The province's confirmed Covid-19 cases account for over 60% of the cases in SA. By Wednesday, it had 11,262 confirmed cases with 210 deaths. “I know it is not safe for us to go back to school, but the government said they will provide health products to keep us safe. I am happy that now I can go back to school and complete my year.” A national survey paints an alarming picture of jobs, income and hunger caused by Covid-19. But it’s the tip of the iceberg, say economists. South African scientists are preparing to join a major international clinical trial to test whether the antimalarial drug chloroquine — which US President Donald Trump claims to be taking, outside of scientific guidelines — can protect healthcare workers from Covid-19 infection. The Western Cape, home to almost two-thirds of confirmed Covid-19 cases, is giving the rest of SA a taste of things to come. This is the message from the state's pandemic experts. Residents of Iterileng informal settlement, near Laudium, Pretoria, flocked to a local stadium as early as 3am on Wednesday in a bid to get their share of 11,000 food parcels distributed by local groups. Some bought their own chairs and crates to sit on while they endured the snaking queues to the stalls. Volunteers moved around the crowds to ensure compliance with regulations such as social distancing, which in some instances proved to be a challenge. The South African Informal Traders Alliance (Saita) and a tobacconist have warned that the ban on the sale of cigarettes is fuelling illicit trade. The organisations are calling on the government to "urgently" lift the ban on the sale of tobacco.