A group of leading scientists have come out in support of Prof Glenda Gray after a senior health official called for her to be investigated for daring to criticise the government's lockdown strategy. Dr Anban Pillay, the acting director-general of the health department, requested that Gray's conduct be investigated, saying she had “made a number of false allegations against the government”, according to GroundUp. On Saturday, the group of scientists, who include Wits vice-chancellor Prof Adam Habib, Prof Jantjie Taljaard of the University of Stellenbosch, Prof Sean Wasserman of Groote Schuur hospital and Prof Linda-Gail Bekker, director of the Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation, signed a statement of support for Gray and “the principle of academic freedom of speech”. “As scientists, academics and policy experts, we are committed to being part of the complex policy response and debate on dealing with the epidemic of Sars-CoV-2 (the cause of Covid-19) in SA. “We recognise that it is impossible to have perfected the response to the epidemic, but course correction should be rapid and not defensive. With that in mind, we condemn the specific threat made against Prof Glenda Gray for expressing her opinion in public, which is totally out of step with the public pronouncements made by the president, welcoming criticism. “We uphold the right to academic freedom of speech, and call on the SA government to engage openly with alternate views, and for all of us to urgently work towards constructive solutions regarding policy, in the interests of the country.” This after Gray, who is the president of the SA Medical Research Council, took a public stand last Saturday against the government’s lockdown strategy, saying it should be ended and replaced with non-pharmaceutical interventions such as handwashing, wearing masks and social distancing. Gray is a member of the Ministerial Advisory Committee (MAC), a group of scientists tasked with advising the government during the Covid-19 pandemic. In an interview with News24, Gray said the MAC had not been consulted on any of the lockdown regulations and added that malnutrition cases were being seen at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital due to the strict lockdown regulations. Sunday Times revealed the following day that she was not the only MAC member who had doubts about the regulations. On Thursday, health minister Zweli Mkhize released a statement criticising Gray for her comments to the media. The acting director-general then asked that her conduct be investigated. The statement was updated at 12pm on Sunday with additional names. It was signed by: 1. Dr Fareed Abdullah, Director: Office of Aids and TB Research, SAMRC 2. Prof Kate Alexander. SA Research Chair in Social Change and Director: Centre for Social Change, University of Johannesburg 3. Prof Cathi Albertyn, School of Law, University of the Witwatersrand 4. Prof Lucy Allais, Professor of Philosophy, University of the Witwatersrand, Henry Alison chair of the History of Philosophy, UCS 5. Prof Dan Barouch, William Bosworth Castle Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Ragon Institute of MGH; MIT, and Harvard, Director of the Center for Virology and Vaccine Research; Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center 6. Prof Linda-Gail Bekker, Director, Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation, University of CapeTown 7. Dr Peter-John Berlyn, Paediatrician, Kimberley 8. Priya Bhana, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 9. Prof Haroon Bhorat, Development Policy Research Unit, University of Cape Town 10. Dr Duanne Blaauw, School of Public Health, University of the Witwatersrand 11. Dr John Black, Infectious Diseases Physician at Livingstone Hospital, University of Cape Town 12. Dr Michael Blackburn, Specialist Anaesthesiologist, private practice Johannesburg 13. Dr Johan Botha, DermAfrica 14. Natalie Bracher, Hutchinson Centre Research Institute of South Africa 15. Professor Keith Breckenridge, WISER, University of the Witwatersrand 16. Prof Adrian Brink, Head of Department Med Micro, University of Cape Town 17. Garth Brink, Family physician, Durban 18. Dr Susan Buchbinder, Professor, Medicine and Epidemiology, UCSF, Member, Executive Management Team, HVTN (in US) 19. Prof Catherine Burns, Associate Professor of Medical History; Adler Museum of Medicine; Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 20. Prof Sarah Charlton, School of Architecture and Planning, University of the Witwatersrand 21. Assoc Prof Sean Chetty, Exec Head, Department of Anaesthesiolgy and Critical Care, Stellenbosch University 22. Prof Nithaya Chetty, Dean, Faculty of Science, University of the Witwatersrand 23. Prof Usuf Chikte, Emeritus Professor, Department of Global Health, Stellenbosch University 24. Dr Wezile Chitha, Assistant Dean: Strategic Affairs, Co-Director: Health Systems Enablement & Innovation Unit, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 25. Dr Jenny Coetzee, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 26. Prof Jason Cohen, Deputy Dean, Faculty of Commerce, Law and Management, University of the Witwatersrand 27. Dr Francesca Conradie, Clinical HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 28. Prof Demitri Constantinou, Professor: Sports and Exercise Medicine and Director: Centre for Exercise Science and Sports Medicine, University of the Witwatersrand 29. Prof Ashraf Coovadia, Chief Specialist and Head of Department of Paediatrics and Child Health at the Rahima Moosa Mother and Child Hospital, University of the Witwatersrand; Director of Empilweni Services and Research Unit and Head of Dept of Paediatrics & Child Health 30. Prof Larry Corey, Past President Fred Hutchinson Research Center and Principal Investigator of the HIV vaccine Trials Network. 31. Prof Mark Cotton, Dept of Paediatrics and Child Health, Stellenbosch University 32. Prof A Keith Cowan, Director, Institute for Environmental Biotechnology, Rhodes University 33. Dr Aslam Dasoo, Progressive Health Forum 34. Prof Joel Dave, Head of Division of Endocrinology, University of Cape Town 35. Prof Danie de Klerk, Assistant Dean, Faculty of Commerce, Law and Management, University of the Witwatersrand 36. Halima Dawood, Head of Clinical Unit: Infectious Diseases, Greys Hospital 37. Dr JC de Witt, paediatrician 38. Dr Albie De Frey, Senior Honorary Lecturer in Travel Medicine at the WITS School of Public Health, University of the Witwatersrand 39. Prof Ames Dhai, Professor of Bioethics, University of the Witwatersrand 40. Dr Janan Dietrich, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 41. Prof Paul Dunne, School of Economics, University of Cape Town 42. Niles Eaton, HIV Vaccine Trials Network at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center 43. Andries Engelbrecht, HVTN 44. Prof David Everatt, Wits School of Government, University of the Witwatersrand 45. Dr Gail Faller, Paediatric Rheumatologist. Wits Donald Gordon Medical Centre, Johannesburg 46. Dr Hannetjie Ferreira, MDR/XDR TB Unit, North West Province 47. Prof John Gear, ex head of public health, University of the Witwatersrand 48. Prof Jaya George, Head of Chemical Pathology, University of the Witwatersrand 49. Dr Elna Gibson, Paediatrician, Hermanus 50. Prof Peter Gilbert, Principal Investigator of the Statistical Data Management Center, HVTN 51. Prof Daryl Glaser, Political Studies, School of Social Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 52. Prof Debbie Glencross, Department of Molecular Medicine and Haematology, University of the Witwatersrand 53. Dr Dean Gopalan, President Critical Care Society of South Africa 54. Dhevium Govender, HCRISA, HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN) 55. Prof Adam Habib, Vice Chancellor, University of the Witwatersrand 56. Dr Scott M Hammer, Harold C. Neu Professor of Infectious Diseases, Columbia University, Irving Medical Center, Member, Executive Management Team, HVTN 57. Dr Woltemade Hartman (Ph.D), Clinical Psychologist and Executive Board Member of the International Society of Clinical Hypnosis 58. Dr Rebecca Hodes, AIDS & Society Research Unit, University of Cape Town 59. Profr Shireen Hassim, WISER, University of the Witwatersrand 60. Dr Cara Hollander, Prime Hearing, University of the Witwatersrand 61. Kathryn L Hopkins, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 62. Prof Mitchell Hughes, School of Business Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 63. Prof Jannie Hugo, Department of Family Medicine, University of Pretoria 64. Prof Tracy Lynn Humby, School of Law, University of the Witwatersrand 65. Prof Barry Jacobson. Head Clinical Haematology, NHLS 66. Prof Ian Jandrell, Dean, Faculty of Engineering the Built Environment, University of the Witwatersrand 67. Prof Jonathan Jansen, Stellenbosch University 68. Dr Bhavna Jasmat, paediatrician 69. Dr Zainub Jooma, Department of Anaesthesia, Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital, University of the Witwatersrand 70. Prof Stephen Jurisich, Head: School of Statistics & Actuarial Science, University of the Witwatersrand 71. Prof Kathy Kahn, School of Public Health, University of the Witwatersrand 72. Prof Bavesh Kana, Personal Professor, Wits University 73. Dr Yatish Kara, Paediatrican 74. Professor Jonathan Klaaren, School of Law, University of the Witwatersrand 75. Professor Uma Kollamparambil, Head, School of Economics and Finance, University of the Witwatersrand 76. Prof Mariana Kruger, Executive Head, Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Stellenbosch University 77. Prof James Kublin, Executive Director of the HVTN, Medical Director of the Malaria Clinical Trials Center at Seattle Biomed, Professor of Global Health at the University of Washington 78. Dr Anita Lai, Private Practice, Sessional Rheumatologist at Helen Joseph Academic Hospital, University of the Witwatersrand 79. Dr Erica Lazarus, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 80. Prof Anthony Leaman, School of Economics, University of Cape Town 81. Prof Murray Leibbrandt, SALDRU, University of Cape Town 82. Engelbert le Roux, HCRISA 83. Prof Naomi Levitt, Emeritus Professor of Endocrinology, University of Cape Town 84. Prof Anthony Leysens, Dean, Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, Stellenbosch University 85. Dr Susan Louw, Department of Molecular Medicine and Haematology, University of the Witwatersrand 86. Prof Gary Maartens, Head of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Cape Town 87. Prof Shabir Madhi, Professor of Vaccinology and Director of the MRC Respiratory and Meningeal Pathogens Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 88. Dr Gloria Maimela, Director Health Programmes, Wits Reproductive Health and HIV  Institute, University of the Witwatersrand 89. Prof Helder Marques, Faculty of Science, University of the Witwatersrand 90. Ms Velashka Martin, Faculty of Commerce, Law and Management, University of the Witwatersrand 91. Dr Troy Martin, Chief of Staff, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, HVTN (in US) 92. Dr Neil Martinson, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 93. Dr Moeketsi Mathe, private practice, lecturer, University of the Witwatersrand 94. Fatima Mayat, Perinatal HIV Research Unit 95. Dr Elizabeth Mayne, Department of Molecular Medicine and Haematology, University of the Witwatersrand 96. Professor Marc Mendelson, Head of Division of Infectious Diseases & HIV Medicine, University of Cape Town 97. Prof Colin Menezes, Academic Head, Department of Internal Medicine, School of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 98. Prof Gesine Meyer-Rath, HERO, University of the Witwatersrand 99. Prof Juliana M McElrath, Professor and Director of the Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Senior Vice President of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Member, Executive Management Team, HVTN 100. Prof James McIntyre, School of Public Health & Family Medicine, University of CapeTown 101. Prof Shaheen Mehtar, Emeritus Professor, Stellenbosch University 102. Minja Milovanovic, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 103. Prof Adam Mahomed, Head of Internal Medicine. CMJAH, University of Witwatersrand 104. Dr Lerato Mohapi, Perinatal HIV Research Unit 105. Professor Yunus Moosa Chief Specialist and Head of the Department of Infectious Diseases at the University of KwaZulu-Natal 106. Prof Rafique Moosa, Exec Head, Department of Medicine, Stellenbosch University 107. Dr Reno Morar, Chief Operating Officer, University of Cape Town 108. Prof Robert Morrell, Office of the Vice-Chancellor Department, University of Cape Town 109. Prof Mike Morris, Economics, University of Cape Town 110. Dr Firdaus Nabeemeeah, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 111. Anusha Nana, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 112. Prof Nicoli Nattrass, School of Economics, University of Cape Town 113. Dr Jeremy Nel, Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 114. Prof Ntobeko Ntusi, Head of Medicine, University of Cape Town 115. Dr Jackline Odhiambo, HVTN 116. Dr Regina Osih, Senior Technical Expert, Aurum Institute 117. Prof Ruksana Osman, DVC Academic, University of the Witwatersrand 118. Prof Kennedy Otwombe, Perinatal HIV Research Unit & School of Public Health, University of the Witwatersrand 119. Prof Vishnu Padayachee, School of Economics and Finance, University of the Witwatersrand 120. Dr Ravindre Panchia, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 121. Professor Maria Pappas, Assistant Dean of Research and Postgraduate Support, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 122. Prof Charles Parry, Director: Alcohol, Tobacco and Other Drug Research Unit, South African Medical Research Council 123. Prof Jon Patricios, Sport and Exercise Medicine Physician, Associate Professor, Wits Institute for Sport and Health (WISH), Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 124. Dr Beth Pheiffer, gynaecologist, retired 125. Prof Barney Pityana, Emeritus Professor, UNISA 126. Prof Sharon Prince, Head of Department of Human Biology, Faculty of HealthSciences, University of Cape Town 127. Shelly Ramirez, HVTN 128. Prof Peter Raubenheimer Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town 129. Dr Haroun Rhemtula, Head of Clinical Unit and Head of Obstetrics, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, CMJAH and University of the Witwatersrand 130. Prof Guy Richards, Emeritus Professor, University of the Witwatersrand 131. Prof Robert Reid — HoS Mechanical, industrial and Aeronautical Engineering, University of the Witwatersrand 132. Prof David Root, HoS Construction Economics and Management, University of the Witwatersrand 133. Bill Rosenberg, BSc (Civ. Eng) 134. Emeritus Professor Bernd Rosenkranz, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University 135. Professor Jannie Rossouw, Wits Business School, University of the Witwatersrand 136. Professor Haroon Saloojee, Department of Paediatrics, University of the Witwatersrand 137. Prof Vishwas Satgar, Department of International Relations, University of the Witwatersrand 138. Prof Lesley Scott, Department of Molecular Medicine and Haematology, University of the Witwatersrand 139. Prof Soraya Seedat, Executive Head, Department of Psychiatry, Stellenbosch University 140. Prof  Jeremy Seekings, Centre for Social Science, University of Cape Town 141. Dr Kate Shearer, Johns Hopkins University 142. Prof Gayle Sherman, Empilweni Services and Research Unit and Head of Dept of Paediatrics & Child Health, University of the Witwatersrand 143. Mr Fana Sibanyoni, Chief Operations Officer, University of the Witwatersrand 144. Prof Martin Smith, school of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 145. Prof Johan Smith, Department of Paediatrics and Child Health Stellenbosch University 146. Dr Julian Smith Paediatrician Pretoria 147. Dr Geetesh Solanki, Senior Specialist Scientist, Health Systems Research Unit, SAMRC 148. Prof Antony Stacey, President: Academic Staff Association of Wits University (ASAWU), University of the Witwatersrand 149. Dr DM Stander, GP, Colesberg 150. Prof Wendy Stevens, Professor and Head, Department of Molecular Medicine and Haematology, University of the Witwatersrand 151. Prof Mark Sonderup, Division of Hepatology, University of Cape Town 152. Prof Garth Stevens, Dean, Faculty of Humanities, University of the Witwatersrand 153. Prof Leslie Swartz, Professor of Psychology, Stellenbosch University 154. Azwi Takalani, Regional Medical Liaison, Hutchinson Centre Research Institute of South Africa 155. Dr Fazleh Taleb, neurosurgeon, private practice 156. Prof Jantjie Taljaard, Head of Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Stellenbosch 157. Dr Mvuyiso Talatala, South African Society of Psychiatrists, Department of Psychiatry, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg 158. India Tindale, HVTN159. Professor Steven Tollman, School of Public Health, University of the Witwatersrand 160. Prof Georgia Tomaras, Professor of Surgery, Immunology and Molecular Genetics and Microbiology at Duke University; Director of Research for the Duke Human Vaccine Institute; Associate Director for the HVTN Laboratory Center 161. Professor Estelle Trengove, School of Electrical and Information Engineering, University of the Witwatersrand 162. Prof Imraan Valodia, Dean, Faculty of Commerce, Law and Management, University of the Witwatersrand 163. Prof John van den Berg, Department of Mathematics and Applied Mathematics, University of Pretoria 164. Professor Alex Van Den Heever, Chair in the field of Social Security at the Wits School of Governance 165. Prof CH van Heerden, Research Professor, Tshwane University of Technology 166. Prof Ebrahim Variava, Department of Internal Medicine, University of the Witwatersrand 167. Unnamed 168. Prof Martin Veller, Dean, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand 169. Prof Francois Venter, Ezintsha, sub-division of Wits Reproductive Health and HIV Institute, University of the Witwatersrand 170. Prof Zeblon Vilakazi, DVC Research, University of the Witwatersrand 171. Dr Avy Violari, Perinatal HIV Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand 172. Prof Jimmy Volmink, Dean Faculty of Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University 173. Prof Gerhard Walzl, Exec Head, Biomedical Sciences, Stellenbosch University 174. Prof Sean Wasserman, Infectious Diseases. Groote Schuur Hospital, University of Cape Town 175. Prof Nicola Wearne, Division of Nephrology, University of Cape Town 176. Prof Edward Webster, Southern Centre for Inequality Studies, University of the Witwatersrand 177. Prof Michelle Williams, Department of Sociology, University of the Witwatersrand 178. Prof Robin Wood, Director, Desmond Tutu HIV Centre, University of Cape Town 179. Dr Adrienne Wulfsohn, Emergency and Disaster Medicine, KZN180. Dr Martin Young, Private Practice 180. Dr Martin Young, Private Practice 