The government and authorities in Bangladesh fear that overcrowded storm evacuation shelters will exacerbate the spread of coronavirus. This comes after Cyclone Amphan flattened houses, uprooted trees, blew off roofs and toppled electricity pylons. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is probing an alleged assault of a journalist covering the lockdown in the Free State. The journalist, based in Ficksburg, apparently fled for his safety to Lesotho after the incident on May 15. Comair and its business rescue practitioners have given customers, companies and travel agents or groups holding unused reservations three options on what to do with their tickets. Comair filed for business rescue on May 5. The airline has been unable to operate since March 26 as a result of the lockdown, which makes provision for operations to begin on level 2. Gauteng has recorded more than 1,700 Covid-19 recoveries and the provincial death toll remained at 27, the provincial health department said on Friday. Spokesperson Kwara Kekana said the number of confirmed cases in the province was  2,453. There were 1,776 recoveries. The public difference of opinion between health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize and Dr Glenda Gray has divided many. Gray's public comments about the government’s decisions relating to the Covid-19 lockdown resulted in Mkhize lambasting her, with many others joining the fray. Minister of international relations Naledi Pandor has shut down requests from repatriated South Africans who want to be sent back to the countries from which they were repatriated. During a briefing on Thursday, Pandor suggested the requests were uncalled for. “We cannot compel countries to take back persons and they cannot open their borders because South Africa asks them to do so,” said Pandor. More than 100,000 citizens have signed One SA Movement leader Mmusi Maimane's petition which seeks to challenge the government's decision to reopen schools on June 1, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The online petition was launched on Tuesday after basic education minister Angie Motshekga announced that schools would be opened in a staggered fashion, with grade 7 and 12 pupils returning on June 1. Long-jump star Luvo Manyonga is in trouble again after being fined with public drinking and contravening lockdown restrictions in Stellenbosch. The 2017 world champion and Olympic silver medallist from Rio 2016 was ordered to appear in court on June 29 or pay a R2‚500 admission of guilt fine. The written notice to appear in court stated that Manyonga‚ 29‚ was caught at Thubelitsha Park in Kayamandi‚ a Stellenbosch township‚ on Wednesday. SA's most social minister, Fikile Mbalula, and EFF leader Julius Malema have shared a hilarious exchange on Twitter on the minister's matching outfit. Mbaks is not letting the lockdown or Covid-19 mess with his drip as he shared a picture of himself wearing a matching mask, suit and shoes. The whole outfit literally said “pandemic, but make it fashion”. The drip aspect may not have been Mbalula's focus though, as he captioned the picture “keep the social distance”. More than 5.12 million people have been reported to have been infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 332,526 have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. -Reuters Officers from the Johannesburg metro police department claim that their colleagues who were tested for Covid-19 returned to work without being placed in quarantine. Protecting older people from Covid-19 is eroding their quality of life and independence. These are some of their desperate, heartbreaking stories. The number of Covid-19 patients at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town is doubling every five days, according to a doctor, one of several at the hospital that we spoke to. The hospital will not be able to cope unless something is done. They're fighting an unknown enemy, as they're bombarded by armchair critics. But, unlike with flu, Covid-19 modellers don’t have decades of history to draw on, and are doing their best to be accurate. Sixteen trainee chefs from the Eziko Cooking and Catering School in Langa, Cape Town, were scheduled to begin three months of practical training at Harbour House at the V&A Waterfront before graduating in June. And then Covid-19 struck, forcing governments around the world to put lockdowns in place to slow the rate of infection. In SA, most businesses, including restaurants and hotels, are partly or fully closed.