South Africa has 24,264 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and 524 deaths. This was an increase of 649 cases and 43 fatalities in the past 24 hours. The figures come 24 hours after what was SA's deadliest day, when 52 deaths were reported in a 24-hour period. It means that 95 deaths (about 18% of the total deaths) have been recorded in the last two days alone. President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday announced that places of worship can reopen under level 3 of the lockdown from June 1, according to strict guidelines. Religious leaders will be classified as "essential frontline workers", he said. Here is Ramaphosa's full unedited address, made available to journalists. "As we prepare to move to alert level 3 on June 1, we recognise and appreciate their deep desire to return to their duties, to serve their communities, and to serve society. After consideration... we have therefore determined that as part of the regulations of alert level 3, the current restrictions on congregational worship will be eased in a carefully measured way." With this, President Cyril Ramaphosa allowed the opening of places of worship from the beginning of next month. "Places of worship may reopen, subject to strict restrictions - which are absolutely necessary. Churches, synagogues, mosques, temples and other recognised places of worship may resume services. But these will be limited in size to 50 people or less, depending on the space available," he said. Everyone must wear face masks, facilities must be sanitised before and after gatherings and rituals that carry "even the slightest possibility" of spreading the coronavirus are prohibited. Ramaphosa said that religious leaders would be "recognised as essential religious frontline workers". Earlier, he said that more than 11,000 South Africans had recovered from Covid-19. He said the virus had taken its toll on the country, "emotionally and spiritually" - and that businesses had suffered and, in some cases, forced to close. "As we prepare to move to alert level 3 on June 1, we recognise and appreciate their deep desire to return to their duties, to serve their communities, and to serve society. After consideration... we have therefore determined that as part of the regulations of alert level 3, the current restrictions on congregational worship will be eased in a carefully measured way." With this, President Cyril Ramaphosa allowed the opening of places of worship from the beginning of next month. "Places of worship may reopen, subject to strict restrictions - which are absolutely necessary. Churches, synagogues, mosques, temples and other recognised places of worship may resume services. But these will be limited in size to 50 people or less, depending on the space available," he said. Ramaphosa said that religious leaders would be "recognised as essential religious frontline workers". Earlier, he said that more than 11,000 South Africans had recovered from Covid-19. He said the virus had taken its toll on the country, "emotionally and spiritually" - and that businesses had suffered and, in some cases, forced to close. The Durban office of the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has temporarily closed its doors following a confirmed Covid-19 case. In a statement, the broadcaster said the affected employee was under quarantine. The office will be decontaminated this week and employees will work remotely until they can return. The World Health Organisation (WHO) considers the Americas the new epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic, and now is not the time for countries to ease restrictions, officials said in a Tuesday briefing. Carissa Etienne, WHO director for the Americas and head of the Pan American Health Organisation, said via video conference that outbreaks were accelerating in countries such as Brazil, where the number of deaths reported in the last week was the highest in the world for a 7-day period since the coronavirus pandemic began. - Reuters Syrian authorities loosened coronavirus lockdown restrictions on Tuesday by cancelling a nighttime curfew, allowing travel between provinces and announcing a reopening of mosques, state media said. The decision comes as the war-torn country grapples with a crippling economic crisis and official cases of the Covid-19 respiratory disease continue to rise. Damascus has announced 121 cases, including four deaths in government-held areas. In the Kurdish-run northeast, the United Nations has recorded six cases including one death. - AFP One in 200 people in two areas of Cape Town has been infected with Covid-19, provincial statistics showed on Tuesday. In Khayelitsha, with a population of 401,000, just over 2,000 people have tested positive. It is just 66 days since the township recorded its first case. In the neighbouring health sub-district of Klipfontein, which has infection hotspots in Delft, Delft South, Gugulethu, Nyanga and Manenberg, 1,934 residents out of 380,000 have tested positive. President Cyril Rampahosa will at 7.30pm address SA on “provisions for the religious sector” during the ongoing national lockdown. Religious leaders have petitioned to Ramaphosa to allow gatherings and for them to be declared an essential service. An international trial to test whether the common malaria drug chloroquine can be used to prevent Covid-19 infection among healthy volunteers — which on Tuesday got final ethics and regulatory approvals in SA — will not be affected by the suspension of a trial treating hospitalised patients with a similar drug. The World Health Organisation (WHO) announced Monday that it was temporarily halting its research on hydroxychloroquine (a derivative of chloroquine) as a treatment, to review safety concerns raised in a report in the Lancet medical journal on Friday. As the country gears towards moving down to lockdown level 3 on June 1, districts classified as hotspots could return to level 4. This is according to health minister Zweli Mkhize who, during his briefing to the National Council of Provinces on Tuesday, said that although lockdown will be eased for all provinces, areas and districts which are still registering high levels of infections will then be reviewed after two weeks to determine if they should move to different levels based on the rate of infections. So far, Cape Town, Johannesburg, Nelson Mandela Bay and eThekwini have been identified as hotspots. A shortage of specialised nurses has meant that Tygerberg Hospital in Cape Town is able to run only 25 of its 42 ICU beds, while a shortage of Covid-19 test kits has resulted in a results backlog. These were two of the key points raised by hospital managers during a parliamentary committee visit to its new temporary testing and triage facility, built to manage the anticipated large influx of Covid-19 cases. On Monday the hospital was treating 140 people in connection with the pandemic. Brazilian federal police on Tuesday raided the residences of Rio de Janeiro Governor Wilson Witzel as part of a Covid-19 corruption probe, targeting one of President Jair Bolsonaro's political foes as the pandemic sweeps the nation. Two sources and a statement from the federal police said the search warrants were part of an investigation into alleged corruption involving the use of public money destined to fight the coronavirus pandemic in Rio de Janeiro state. No arrest warrants were issued, a source said. In a statement, Witzel said he was innocent, and accused Bolsonaro of "interference" in the probe. - Reuters May 26 2020 - 14:27 New ways to report police brutality, inhumane treatment under lockdown Police said on Tuesday they had beefed up their capacity to handle complaints about brutality, and cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment during the lockdown in response to a Pretoria high court ruling in the Collins Khosa case. The public can now report these allegations directly at the nearest police station or at the SAPS national service complaints centre, says national police spokesperson Brig Vishnu Naidoo. May 26 2020 - 13:42 82 fined after Eid al-Fitr prayers in contravention of lockdown regulations Eighty-two worshippers have been fined after gathering for a prayer service in Modimolle, Limpopo, in contravention of Covid-19 lockdown regulations The group, who are members of the Muslim community, had been celebrating Eid. National police spokesperson Brig Vishnu Naidoo said the group were arrested after police received a complaint. They were arrested under disaster management regulations prohibiting gatherings of more than 50 people. May 26 2020 - 13:37 Thieves steal protective gear meant to keep pupils, teachers safe at school Criminals have hit at least three more schools in the country, stealing personal protective equipment (PPE) meant to ensure the safety of teachers, pupils and staff. Department of basic education spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said two schools in KwaZulu-Natal and one in Gauteng had been targeted. In a separate incident, two people were killed after allegedly being caught by members of the community while attempting to break into a school in Soweto, where deliveries of essentials had just been made. May 26 2020 - 13:00 'We cannot risk lives:' teacher's union heads to court to stop schools opening The Educators Union of South Africa (Eusa) is planning to approach the courts on Friday for an interdict against the government's plan to partially open schools on June 1. Union spokesperson Kabelo Mahlobogwane likened sending children back to school in winter to "genocide" without the necessary safety precautions in place. "Sending learners to school during winter, when infections will be increasing, is similar to committing a genocide," Mahlobogwane told TimesLIVE. May 26 2020 - 13:00 'I am not Mazzotti's friend': Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to MPs Co-operative governance and traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma on Tuesday distanced herself from alleged cigarette smuggler Adriano Mazzotti. During a meeting of the National Council of Provinces, Dlamini-Zuma told MPs that she was not friends with Mazzotti. DA MP Cathlene Labuschagne had asked her about her association with Mazzotti. May 26 2020 - 13:00 Covid-19 recoveries approach 2,000 as 30 die in Gauteng Gauteng has recorded more than 1,900 recoveries from Covid-19 while the death toll stood at 30, the provincial health department said on Tuesday. Spokesperson Kwara Kekana said the number of confirmed cases in the province was 2,993. There were 1,919 recoveries. May 26 2020 - 12:47 'At last, my own board duster': teachers on the good and bad of returning to school While unions voice concerns over schools reopening, teachers are sharing their personal opinions on the good and bad aspects of returning to work during the coronavirus pandemic. Taking to the South African Teachers page on Facebook, one educator explained how the virus would force the government to provide the essential tools for him to do his job. “I never owned a board duster ever since I started teaching. Ownership was communal, with 27 educators sharing 10 dusters at times,” wrote the teacher from Limpopo. May 26 2020 - 12:46 Hotspots to be micromanaged to curb Covid-19: Zweli Mkhize Teams of experts will work in hotspots, concentrating on a very small catchment area while caring for the health of people in these districts as the Covid-19 combat plan moves into a new phase. This is according to health minister Zweli Mkhize, who on Tuesday shared the government's stance on the efficacy of the lockdown as the country prepares to move from level 4 to 3. The teams will try to keep as many people as possible away from hospitals by getting them treated by general practitioners and nurses in the hotspot areas, he said. “We have good co-operation across the provinces. Each hotspot must have its own team of experts.” May 26 2020 - 12:42 Tobacco ban 'luring kids to dagga and cocaine because they are cheaper than cigarettes' Soweto Business Access (SBA) plans to challenge the government's decision to prohibit the sale of tobacco products during the lockdown, claiming the ban is doing more harm than good. SBA chairperson Mphuthi Mphuthi confirmed to TimesLIVE that the submission would be based on evidence it had collected. “We have drafted the submission and are sharing it with our stakeholders so we submit it with evidence and input from various players,' said Mphuthi. May 26 2020 - 12:25 Paper patient folders, visitors banned at Cape Town's new Covid-19 hospital For music lovers, Hall 4 at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) is better known as Kippies, the biggest and most vibrant venue during the annual Cape Town International Jazz Festival. But in two weeks it will become a “beacon of hope and recovery” for Covid-19 patients. Work to turn the convention centre into an 850-bed hospital is well under way, with about 350 beds and oxygen lines already fitted. The first patients will arrive on June 8. May 26 2020 - 11:31 Winter, Covid-19, HIV and TB could be deadly cocktail for SA, scientists warn Eight scientists, including SA Medical Research Council head Prof Glenda Gray, have sent a chilling warning about the toll Covid-19 could take as winter sets in. The scientists compared the virus with the H1N1 outbreak which infected more than 12,000 South Africans and killed 90 between July and October in 2009. May 26 2020 - 11:31 Clarity on level three Covid-19 regulations expected on Wednesday SA's national coronavirus command council will brief the country on the regulations relating to the Covid-19 level 3 restrictions on Wednesday. The briefing is expected to start at 12.30pm. This follows the announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa at the weekend that the country will move down a level from stage 4 from June 1. May 26 2020 - 11:31 Directives issued for return of final- year medical students and Post Office employees The departments of higher education and communications and digital technologies have issued directives about the return of final-year medical students to universities and staffing at branches of the Post Office and Postbank. They were published in the Government Gazette on Tuesday. "The purpose of the directions is to allow for the once-off travel of final-year medical students studying at public higher education institutions to travel from their homes to the university campus where they are registered for study," read the gazette. May 26 2020 - 11:24 'Don't be afraid': home schooling and e-learning available for pupils in Gauteng, says Lesufi Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has urged parents who are uncomfortable with sending their children back to school to explore other ways for them to finish the academic year. More than 300,000 pupils in grades 7 and 12 are expected to resume classes on June 1. “In Gauteng, we are not only opening class contact, we are making the system available to every child, every parent. If there are parents that want to home school their children, we are making that provision for them,” said Lesufi. May 26 2020 - 10:30 'This is a global pandemic, not a racial one' — Mbuyiseni Ndlozi slammed for 'racialising' Covid-19 & lockdown EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi was at the receiving end of criticism on social media this week, with many claiming he is “racialising” the Covid-19 pandemic and national lockdown. This after he asked health minister Zweli Mkhize to provide a racial breakdown of citizens affected by the novel coronavirus. Ndlozi has criticised the government's decision to move to level 3 of the lockdown from June 1. May 26 2020 - 10:27 'There is no time to catch up': Covid-19 test backlog hits 21,904 in Eastern Cape The Eastern Cape is sitting with a huge Covid-19 testing backlog, with 21,904 samples yet to be tested. This is according to a letter sent to the Eastern Cape health portfolio committee by National Health Laboratory Service Eastern Cape manager Tabita Makula. In the letter, dated May 21, Makula said the eight laboratories had accumulated a backlog because of changes in the province’s testing strategy, reports HeraldLIVE. May 26 2020 - 10:26 Mthatha district municipality closes two offices after employee tests positive for Covid-19 The OR Tambo district municipality in Mthatha, Eastern Cape, has closed two of its offices after an employee tested positive for Covid-19. The offices at Myezo Park and Prosperity Building were closed on Monday and all staff evacuated. "Essential services, like the provision of water and sanitation services, and operations from other offices will continue during this period. Meanwhile, the municipality will follow the Covid-19 protocols that include the testing of employees and decontamination of the two buildings before employees return to duty," the municipality said. May 26 2020 - 10:14 SA Medical Research Council clears its president Glenda Gray over lockdown remarks The South African Medical Research Council (SAMR) board has cleared the institution's president Prof Glenda Gray. Gray, a member of the ministerial advisory committee (MAC) on Covid-19 and president of the SAMRC, came under fire last week after she was quoted in a News24 article as saying that some of the lockdown regulations were “not based in science”, were “completely unmeasured”, and were “almost as if someone is sucking regulations out of their thumb and implementing rubbish”. In a statement issued on Tuesday morning, the board said it met and discussed the matter with Gray and looked into its policies. "We did not find transgression of these policies by Professor Gray. The Board has decided that it will not be instituting any further investigation on this matter." May 26 2020 - 9:23 Western Cape presses panic button on backlog as Covid-19 tests plummet The Western Cape has sounded the alarm about the provincial backlog of 18,000 Covid-19 test results. Premier Alan Winde said he had asked President Cyril Ramaphosa and health minister Zweli Mkhize to resolve the shortage of test kits at the National Health Laboratory Service. May 26 2020 - 9:03 'If things are not working, we could stop and restart'- Angie Motshekga on schools reopening Since announcing that schools would reopen on June 1, basic education minister Angie Motshekga has addressed several concerns and objections, suggesting this week that schools may once again close if Covid-19 cases worsen. Schools will open next week for grades 7 and 12, as well as some “smaller schools” of not more than 125 pupils. Other grades will return in a phased approach. May 26 2020 - 8:33 Cremation highly recommended for Covid-19 victims To minimise possible exposure, cremation is highly recommended for those who have died of Covid-19, some of the rules gazetted by the health department and signed off by minister Dr Zweli Mkhize state. The rules also dictate how bodies should be disposed of. The regulations indicate that cremation is highly recommended for victims who have died of Covid-19. Makeshift mortuaries could become a reality as we head towards virus peak With the Western Cape carrying the highest burden of fatal Covid-19 cases, the City of Cape Town has been preparing for “an increased demand in burial spaces” and has called on the public to opt for cremation over burial, and to consider weekday funerals to avoid demand outstripping capacity on weekends. Other SA cities are following the same guidelines, but another potential challenge is body storage: what happens to the body of a person who died of Covid-19 before they are buried or cremated? Last week, epidemiological modellers predicted that 40,000 South Africans would die of Covid-19 by November this year. Twenty-six people have tested positive for Covid-19 at Mediclinic Cape Town, management confirmed. “Nearly 300 potential contacts have been tested, with the majority of these returning negative results,” Dr Stefan Smuts, the chief clinical officer of Mediclinic Southern Africa said in a statement. Smuts said 26 people, including 15 health workers, had tested positive. Online, many South Africans and qualifying foreign citizens have expressed frustration after experiencing system glitches while trying to submit claims for May via the website's online portal. A free peanut butter sandwich was the sole daily meal for hundreds of Krugersdorp West residents, many of them children. But in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, some charities were stopped from distributing any food. Lockdown may be eased, but l​​iquor traders warn overly strict regulations may lead to chaos. There is the risk of more infections, looting and violence, they say.