May 28 2020 - 11:32 Eastern Cape provincial police commissioner beats Covid-19 Eastern Cape provincial police commissioner Lt-Gen Liziwe Ntshinga has fully recovered from Covid-19 and has returned to work. Ntshinga tested positive for the virus more than two weeks ago. May 28 2020 - 11:18 Chatsworth police station expected to reopen after Covid-19 scare The Chatsworth police station, south of Durban, is expected to be up and running again on Thursday after closing on Monday due to a Covid-19 scare. This after a constable based at the station tested positive for the virus. Police spokesperson Brig Vishnu Naidoo said the member had received her results on Monday and immediately informed her commander on the same day. May 28 2020 - 11:15 Hospital 'starves' isolated patient for three days after suspecting she had Covid-19 A heavily pregnant Soweto woman relived her “nightmare” at a local hospital where she says she was treated with disdain and denied food for three days in isolation because she displayed symptoms of Covid-19. Kgopotso Hlatshwayo is also heartbroken about the humiliation she was subjected to by her community, who suspected that she tested positive to the deadly coronavirus, SowetanLIVE reports. May 28 2020 - 10:57 Eastern Cape slashes travel, subsistence budgets by 45% to fight pandemic Travel and subsistence budgets in all Eastern Cape government departments have been cut by 45%, with the money being redirected to the department of health. Speaking at a virtual plenary meeting on Wednesday, finance MEC Mlungisi Mvoko said this had been done to boost the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. May 28 2020 - 10:52 'We are not drunks,' say fuming KZN teachers after education MEC's 'slur' KwaZulu-Natal MEC for education Kwazi Mshengu has apologised, saying his comment about teachers consuming alcohol was taken out of context and was not meant to offend. During an interview on Ukzhozi FM on Wednesday evening, Mshengu was asked if the department was able to assure the safety of students and teachers. He said he was able to guarantee their safety in school but not outside. May 28 2020 - 10:41 Tune in for clarity on level 3 rules from Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma today South Africans awaiting an easing of lockdown restrictions on Monday will obtain clarity on a range of issues including exercise times and alcohol sales shortly. The government confirmed on Thursday that co-operative governance and traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and trade and industry minister Ebrahim Patel will address a news briefing on the regulations from 2pm. May 28 2020 - 10:33 Mmusi Maimane turns to crowdfunding in battle with government over schools reopening Mmusi Maimane, through his One SA Movement, is taking the government to court over its decision to reopen schools on June 1, and has appealed to citizens for financial assistance to pursue legal action. The planned court action follows the government's failure to respond to Maimane's letter asking for an explanation on its decision and a petition, which was signed by more than 160,000 citizens who are against reopening schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic. May 28 2020 - 10:32 ANC to revisit 'RDP insights' of the 90s to revive economy after Covid-19 The ANC government will dust off old policies as it looks to rebuild a post Covid-19 economy that is “inclusive, resilient and sustainable”. Treasurer-general Paul Mashatile told the Chatham House think-tank that the coronavirus has exposed gaps in the provision of infrastructure and basic needs such as health care, education, public transport, roads, water and housing. May 28 2020 - 9:39 'Your anxiety shouldn't determine the future of other children': Motshekga to parents “Your anxiety should not determine the future of other children whose parents do want their children to go to school.” These are the words of basic education minister Angie Motshekga to parents who have expressed anxieties about sending their children to school during the Covid-19 pandemic. May 28 2020 - 9:34 Anxiety and over-eating cited in lockdown poll, and yes, we're smoking more Anxiety, overeating and under-exercising, insomnia and depression are all seen as problems arising as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown in SA. Only three in every ten online South Africans (30%) polled by Ipsos indicated that they do not suffer from any of the listed conditions. Males were slightly less open to answering the question than females were. May 28 2020 - 9:05 Mmusi Maimane wants to commission Dali Mpofu to fight school reopening Founder of the One South Africa movement Mmusi Maimane announced that he intends taking government to court over the reopening of schools on June 1. A week ago, the former opposition party leader initiated a petition to pressure government not to reopen on June 1. Maimane called on government to only reopen schools in about three months' time. May 28 2020 - 8:34 School feeding programme to resume from Monday Children who previously qualified for the National School Nutrition Programme (NSNP) will receive school meals or food parcels when schools reopen, Equal Education and the department of basic education said in a joint statement. This after civil rights advocates raised concerns over the halting of the NSNP during the nationwide lockdown. May 28 2020 - 8:16 Councillors to get pay hike from July, urged to donate to Covid-19 relief In line with a national agreement, municipal councillors will receive a pay hike from July. This is according to a city statement on Cape Town's budget presentation, but is applicable across the country. Mayor Dan Plato said during a budget discussion to council that a SA Local Government Association (Salga) increase of 6.25% for staff is included in the 2020/21 budget as per Bargaining Council agreements, and applies nationally to all municipalities. Motshekga visits schools ahead of reopening Basic education minister Angie Motshekga is expected to visit at three schools in Gauteng on Thursday to check the progress made in preparing for reopening on Monday. 'Let those who want to be at church do what works for them': Mboro defends churches reopening Incredible Happenings church leader Paseka “Mboro” Motsoeneng has weighed in on the reopening of churches and other places of worship from June 1, claiming they are an essential service to those who rely on them for emotional and spiritual support. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Tuesday evening that places of worship could hold services from June 1, if they follow safety protocols. These include limiting the amount of people to 50 or less, sanitising buildings before and after services, and social distancing. Old Mutual converts office space to quarantine facility as Western Cape cases climb Covid-19 deaths in the Western Cape, South Africa’s most infected province, reached 387 on Wednesday after 30 more people died in the last 24 hours. The total cases in the province increased to 16,551 - an increase of 795 cases since Tuesday. According to Western Cape premier Alan Winde, 8,504 people have recovered while 7,660 cases remain active - a steady increase since Tuesday’s total of 7,555.