At least 26 Walter Sisulu University (WSU) students from four different residences and one staff member have tested positive for Covid-19, and all students at the Buffalo City campus are to go into into self-isolation. Vice-chancellor Rob Midgley on Sunday night sent a circular advising that to protect students, staff and Buffalo City residents and prevent the coronavirus from spreading, all contact activity between staff and students was to be cancelled and all students were to be confined to their residences until November 8. Midgley said the students would only be allowed to purchase groceries on Monday. Thereafter arrangements would be made for food deliveries to be made to their residences. He said counselling support services would be made available to students. The manager of the popular Blackdoor Lifestyle Lounge in Sandton, Johannesburg, has been arrested for breaking the lockdown regulations, police said. The SAPS, the Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department, Gauteng traffic police and various other law enforcement agencies shut down the nightclub in the early hours of Sunday. This after more than 300 patrons were allegedly found at the establishment after the midnight curfew. Footage taken during the bust shows the nightclub packed to capacity. Police minister Bheki Cele, who was also present during the raid, said there was no social distancing and no-one wore a mask. KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala has warned that another hard lockdown could be imminent if people did not change their reckless behaviour. Zikalala made the statement during a media briefing on Sunday. He said the provincial government was “deeply bothered by the largely carefree attitude that has been displayed by some citizens of this province, particularly since our downgrading to lockdown level 1. “Despite our warnings about tangible examples of a second wave of infections and deaths, it seems many people have thrown all caution to the wind and gone back to their old ways.” LISTEN | Expect a resurgence — but another lockdown won't help, says Prof Shabir Madhi Subscribe for free: iono.fm | Spotify | Apple Podcasts | Pocket Casts | Player.fm