A damning Special Investigating Unit (SIU) report has placed suspended Gauteng health MEC Bandile Masuku firmly at the centre of dodgy Covid-19 PPE tender procurement processes worth R125m from a politically-connected firm. This is according to an SIU preliminary report prepared for Gauteng premier David Makhura as part of its investigation into  Masuku's role in the awarding of tenders to Royal Bhaca, a company owned by Thandisizwe Diko, husband of  president Cyril Ramaphosa spokesperson , Khusela Diko. The Dikos and the Masukus are family friends. Masuku has consistently distanced himself from his department's procurement processes related to Royal Bhaca, but the SIU report paints a different picture. The  report, dated October 1, places Masuku firmly at the centre of the “irregular tender” to  Thandisizwe's company and two other companies associated with him. According to the report, Masuku had known about the department's irregular procurement processes. It states that the department's newly-appointed supply chain head, Thandy Pino, had informed former head of department Prof Mkhululi Lukhele that then CFO  Kabelo Lehloenya had been procuring PPE without complying with relevant laws - and that this was escalated to Masuku's office. Pino is  on suspension pending the SIU investigation, while Lehloenya quit her position in May. Lukhele resigned from his position at the height of the scandal last week. Masuku has also been placed on special leave, with a decision on his fate expected this week. “Ms Pino's report resulted in a grievance/dispute arising between the CFO and the head of SCM [supply chain management], which was escalated to the office of the MEC, and an advisor of the MEC was involved in trying to resolve the grievance/dispute,” reads the report. “However, the grievance/dispute was never really resolved and the CFO was merely allowed to bypass the head of SCM and to continue procuring in the irregular manner as before.” It states that as a result of the dispute, Masuku knew about the irregular procurement - or “ought to have reasonably known about the irregular procurement”. “The MEC promoted it [irregular procurement], facilitated it, allowed it and/or merely turned a blind-eye and failed to do anything about it,” reads the report. It further rubbishes Masuku's attempt to distance himself from the day-to-day transactions of his department, saying it was clear that the department and Lehloenya had gone out of their way to fully inform Masuku about PPE procurement. “One such example [of informing Masuku] is the fact that during April 2020, the MEC was copied-in on an e-mail by the CFO of the GDoH [Gauteng department of health] in respect of the list of service providers for the supply of PPE, which list clearly indicated that Royal Bhaca, represented by Mr Diko, had been awarded a substantial contract. “The question arises as to why would the then CFO of the GDoH have sent the MEC an e-mail regarding a list of supplies of PPE, whereas by virtue of his position as MEC and by his own admission, the MEC is normally not involved in the administrative functions of the GDoH, including its procurement processes.” The report further states that the investigation into alleged collusion, corruption and involvement by Masuku and his wife Loyiso was  ongoing. Another critical preliminary SIU finding is that it had identified metadata which indicates that a quotation by Ledla, a company which is allegedly a front for Royal Bhaca, was allegedly created by Thandasizwe himself, and later modified by the former CFO. It says the awarding of contracts to Royal Bhaca, Ledla and Beadica was unlawful. The report states that the expenditure the department of health incurred on the three companies should be deemed irregular in terms of the Public Finance Management Act and other related laws. “Furthermore, the investigation found that the department  suffered a loss or fruitless and wasteful expenditure in respect of the three contracts in a total amount of R45,532,709.10,” reads the report. Makhura's spokesperson Vuyo Mhaga said the premier has received the report and he would inform Gauteng citizens on what action he will take during a press conference on Friday. Masuku declined to speak on the report, saying it had been directed to the premier and it was not given to him for comment. The SIU could not be reached for comment. TimesLIVE