The numbers are in, with Huawei revealing the top downloaded apps in SA on its exclusive app distribution platform, Huawei AppGallery, for 2020 so far. These apps vary in category from financial, news and travel, to food and shopping, providing insights about South Africans’ culture and mobile app preferences. An information-hungry citizenry During a time when being informed and having credible, timely news sources is critically important, it’s little wonder that several news apps were among the top downloads on Huawei AppGallery over the past nine months. Electronic newspaper editions, including Business Day, Sunday Times, The Herald and TimesLIVE were the most downloaded. Other popular online news platforms such as News24, Netwerk24 and EWN’s app versions were also popular hits. Planning for load-shedding One of the frustrations people regularly had to deal with this year, is the inconvenience caused by load-shedding. Thanks to the Load Shedding Notifier app, consumers have been able to monitor their Eskom load-shedding status. EskomSePush also provides load-shedding push notifications and predictions. With these apps, you can prepare in advance. Staying safe and protected As the scourge of gender-based violence, abductions and general crime takes its toll on our communities, having a mobile safety solution on hand can be a lifesaver. The Namola app has been one of the top downloads in 2020. It keeps you safe, connected and protected by enabling you to easily source help from the police, security companies, ambulance, fire department or traffic officers in any emergency, any time, anywhere. With the AA Armed Response app, you need only press the AA Armed Response button for help in an emergency situation and aid will come. Non-AA members can get access to this service from only R35 a month. Online retail therapy It has been a tough year so far, no doubt, but a little retail therapy can boost your mood. Having access to anything you want without having to leave your home by simply shopping on mobile apps, is super convenient. Takealot, SA’s top mobile shopping app, was a popular download along with Zando, bidorbuy, Loot and Woolworths. Taking charge of finances Taking charge of finances and handling money well requires you to be responsible and financially savvy. With 22seven, you can manage your money better and invest it wisely, thanks to budgeting and investing insight provided on the app. And when it comes to simple, small transactions on the go, SnapScan and Zapper proved to be favourites on Huawei AppGallery as they deliver instant mobile payments that are secure in all kinds of transactional scenarios. Streaming entertainment The ability to consume TV and film content your way, whenever and wherever, has given rise to subscription video on demand services (SVoD). With a focus on local content, our very own local SVoD service, Showmax was among the most popular downloads. Like Showmax, DStv is part of MultiChoice, and with the DStv Now app, all DStv entertainment is available to subscribers. Those who were not watching were definitely listening to their favourite radio station or music streaming platform. The 94.7 radio mobile app was a favourite for 2020, as the app lets you listen live, access previous show podcasts and let you review the Top 40 SA music chart. Favourite food delivered at a click For ordering in, the Mr D Food delivery app has been a hit on Huawei AppGallery. With a selection of more than 5,000 South African restaurants, Mr D Food is indeed SA’s top food delivery service. For those who prefer ordering from specific restaurant chains though, downloads showed that Nando’s, Steers, and Debonairs Pizza apps were among the favourites in the food delivery category. A host of other apps were also ranked among the top downloaded apps on Huawei AppGallery this year, including Nedbank Money, Capitec Bank, Absa Banking, Standard Bank/Stanbic Bank, Gautrain, Mango Airlines, SAA, Flapp, SuperSport, MoyaMessenger, d6SchoolCommunicator, Cars.co.za, Discovery, Clicks, Bottles and Hyperli. Check out and download all these apps and many more from Huawei AppGallery by clicking here from your Huawei device. You’ll be sure to find an app that will bring enhanced convenience, functionality and entertainment to your life. This article was paid for by Huawei Mobile Services.