Deputy police national commissioner for human resource management, Lt-Gen Bonang Mgwenya, is contesting a suspension notice after  her arrest on corruption, fraud and money laundering charges. The high-ranking officer was allegedly involved in fraud relating to a multimillion-rand tender for emergency warning equipment. National police commissioner General Khehla Sitole confirmed that Mgwenya was suspended “following damning allegations of her alleged involvement in crimes”. Meanwhile, national police spokesperson Brig Vish Naidoo said that, in an unrelated matter, Sitole had dismissed another lieutenant-general “for her alleged involvement in corruption dating back to 2015". “Details of this case will be provided at a later stage. “The SAPS is suffering a severe wound in the form of corruption. But as we continue to clean our ranks, the scar of it will remind us that we should never suffer such a wound again”, said  Sitole. Regarding Mgwenya's suspension, TimesLIVE has seen the notice of suspension documents and received a confirmation from an anonymous source, who said: “She is suspended. Another deputy is being appointed in her place.” In the notice,  Sitole said: “You are hereby notified that your suspension transfer under the regulation 10(1) of the SAPS discipline regulations, 2016, will be considered on the grounds that you allegedly committed serious misconduct. “You are entitled to submit written representations regarding the possible suspension or temporary transfer.” Mgwenya submitted that a suspension would have serious reputation implications for her. “It is respectfully submitted that there is no legal basis to suspend me at this point in time as a precautionary measure, but rather to expedite the departmental processes in order for the matter to be brought to finality as soon as possible,” she said. “Alternatively, a consideration can be given to temporarily transfer me to an alternative post, pending the finalisation of any departmental processes.” In another document in possession of TimesLIVE, the commissioner confirms  that Mgwenya will be out of the office and an interim manager has been appointed. “In order not to affect service delivery, the deputy national commissioner: asset and legal management Lt-Gen FN Vuma, in addition to her current function, [will] also be overseeing the functions of the  deputy national commissioner: human resource with immediate effect and until further notice,” said the document. Mgwenya recently appeared at the Palm Ridge magistrate's court after being arrested at her home in the early hours of the morning. She was released on bail and indicated she would plead not guilty to all charges. Mgwenya and other suspects who were recently arrested join former national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane, former Gauteng police commissioner Deliwe de Lange, Gauteng deputy police commissioner Nombhuruza Lettie Napo, Lt-Gen Ramahlapi Johannes Mokwena (retired divisional commissioner), Brig James Ramanjalum, Maj-Gen Ravichandran Pillay, Col Thomas Dumas Marima and Sgt Maetapese Joseph Mulaiwa TimesLIVE