SA’s insurance companies have seen a surge in life insurance claims related to Covid-19 — but they aren’t yet looking at raising prices for policies. Jenny Ingram, head of product development and pricing for life insurance at Momentum, said this week the group’s claims payouts to date are at a record high of R4.6bn, 30% up from the previous year. This includes life insurance claims for Covid-19 deaths as well as an increase in deaths due to heart attacks and strokes. Ingram attributes the latter to the economic and psychological stress of lockdown. This week, Mkhize noted a 9.1% increase in new cases over the past week and a 10.7% rise over two weeks, which will be presented to the National Coronavirus Command Council for it to take appropriate steps. The public is watching, anxious that the government could do the unthinkable and slam the brakes on our emergence from the Covid-19 nightmare by dragging us all the way back to level 5, in a worst-case scenario. More than 42.45 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 1,146,763​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. -Reuters The pod, which is separate from the care facility, has a clear screen between the residents and visitors, with a telephone intercom system for them to communicate. "During the height of the Covid-19 lockdown we were very aware of the impact of shutting off our elders from their families and friends, and the impact this would have on their mental wellbeing," Tafta CEO Femada Shamam told the Sunday Times. A Sandton nightclub was shut down and employees of a Midrand adult entertainment venue fined early on Saturday morning for violating lockdown laws. SAPS, the Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department, Gauteng traffic police and various other law enforcement agencies found more than 300 patrons at Blackdoor Lifestyle Lounge in Sandton after the midnight curfew. Footage taken during the bust shows the nightclub filled to capacity, with not many wearing masks. The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 11,176 to 429,181, data from the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases showed on Sunday. The reported death toll rose by 29 to 10,032, the tally showed. - Reuters China on Sunday reported 15 new coronavirus cases in the mainland, down from 28 cases the previous day, the health commission said on Sunday. All 15 of the new infections reported for Saturday were imported, according to a statement by the National Health Commission. It reported 19 new asymptomatic patients, compared with 27 a day earlier.