Professional golf in this country is flickering back to life and the latest spark is the announcement that the 2020 Alfred Dunhill Championship will be contested for a record prize pot of R29m. Earlier this week the Sunshine Tour announced the return of the Joburg Open from  November 19-22 and a week later the pros will turn their attention to Leopard Creek for an even bigger purse. The 2020 Alfred Dunhill Championship will anchor a strong run of co-sanctioned tournaments in SA at the end of this year by offering the biggest purse on the Sunshine Tour this season. The tournament forms part of the Sunshine Tour’s international restart of its schedule‚ and  will be played according to the strict Covid-19 health protocols of both the South African government and  the European Tour. The event, which is annually contested at one of the most unique golf settings, has proved popular with professionals. The course may have great vistas of the banks of the Crocodile River and the adjacent Kruger National Park but it is a true test of endurance, as it is contested in suffocating heat. Some big names have stayed the course. Since its inception in 2000‚ the list of past champions has included Major champions and former world No 1s Adam Scott‚ Justin Rose‚ Charl Schwartzel and Ernie Els. The current champion is Pablo Larrazábal‚ who kept going last year despite foot problems to win by one shot in an exciting finish. “The Alfred Dunhill Championship is one of our flagship tournaments and we are extremely grateful to be able to announce it as part of our schedule‚ and with such a significant increase in prize money‚” said Thomas Abt‚ commissioner of the Sunshine Tour. As will be the case a week earlier at the Joburg Open‚ no spectators will be allowed onto the picturesque course. “In our 21st year‚ we are delighted that we can stage the Alfred Dunhill Championship. We are sorry that we cannot welcome spectators‚ but we are sure golf fans will understand‚” said Guy Sanan of Richemont‚ the sponsor of the event.