A confidential National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) document — which has been confirmed as authentic — has linked Senzo Meyiwa’s girlfriend Kelly Khumalo to a suspect in the Bafana Bafana captain’s murder. Point 6 of the document, a letter from the NPA to the investigating officer in the case, Col Bongani Gininda, instructs police: “Cellphone records of Ms Kelly Khumalo indicating her communication with the accused must be obtained, as previously indicated.” Meyiwa was killed at Khumalo's mother's home in Vosloorus in Ekurhuleni six years ago. Attempts to get comment from Khumalo via phone and text message were unsuccessful. The police did not immediately respond to requests for comment. It is not clear exactly when the document was drafted, with the NPA not answering questions to this effect when contacted on Tuesday afternoon. Other requests the NPA made to police in the document, which do not relate to Khumalo, include that: The document accompanied the charge sheet that the NPA issued to the group on Tuesday morning, as five men appeared in the Boksburg magistrate's court charged with Meyiwa's murder. The NPA quickly withdrew the document, saying it should not be in the public domain — but before this could happen, it had already been widely shared on social media. Asked about the document, NPA spokesperson Sipho Ngwema said it was a private communication between the investigating team giving instructions on what needs to be done. Its authenticity was not in question. “Unfortunately there is a paper that slipped in which is not a public document. But the investigation continues and we hope that we will be able to plug the gaps and make sure that all the information that is needed is dealt with and we are able to receive it,” Ngwema said after Tuesday’s court appearance. Pressed for more details on when the document was written and if it was ever acted upon, Ngwema said simply: “That is an internal document, for private internal use.” The five suspects — who are all in prison on unrelated convictions — will appear in court again on November 27. TimesLIVE