The government has decided that the special R350 Covid-19 social grant will be offered for another three months as part of a new economic plan to tackle the effects of the coronavirus on the economy. President Cyril Ramaphosa made the announcement in parliament on Thursday, when he presented the “economic reconstruction and recovery plan”. “We will ... be extending the special Covid-19 grant by a further three months. This will maintain a temporary expansion of social protection and allow the labour market sufficient time to recover,” said Ramaphosa. According to the department of international relations & co-operation, October has been declared Mental Health Awareness Month. The objective is to educate the public about mental health and reduce the stigma and discrimination which people with mental illnesses are often subjected to. The South African mental health fact sheet states that about one in three South Africans do or will have a mental health issue at some point in their lifetime. But only one in 10 South Africans have had mental health treatment or care. President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R100bn fund to create 800,000 public sector jobs in the next three years. Ramaphosa made the announcement during a joint sitting of the two houses of parliament on Thursday, where he tabled an “economic reconstruction and recovery plan” in response to the devastating effects of Covid-19 on the country's economy. Ramaphosa presented the plan after it was adopted at the National Economic Development and Labour Council (NEDLAC) following stakeholder consultation. The Pan South African Language Board (PanSALB), in partnership with media research company Focal Points, will crown SA Word of the Year on Friday. 'Jerusalema', 'lockdown' and 'Covid-19' have been shortlisted. London's mayor Sadiq Khan said he expects the government will announce later on Thursday that London will shortly move to stricter lockdown restrictions. "It is my expectation that the governemnt will today announce that London will shortly be moving into tier 2 or the high alert level of restrictions," Khan said. In light of his turn around the sun and being granted another year of life, rapper K.O has lifted the lid on how Covid-19 almost took his life in July. As a birthday shoutout to himself, Mr Cashtime expressed how grateful he was to be living on “God's green earth” despite having contracted the virus. K.O opened up about having Covid in a tweet, saying things were clearer now, now that he knows his purpose. Health minister Zweli Mkhize has promised an aggressive “catch-up” drive to restore community health services and persuade people to seek health care as the country emerges from the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking at a webinar to mark the start of the seventh annual Rotary Family Health Day outreach programme, Mkhize said it was imperative that SA did not squander any gains made during the pandemic. “We are aware that, due to the combination of lockdown regulations and the fear of contracting Covid-19 in [health] facilities, our people shied away from seeking what may have been deemed to be non-urgent or non-essential health services,” he said. Warnings mounted in Germany that it was up to the citizens of Europe's biggest economy to do their part to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic as daily new infections reached a record on Thursday. "There can be no question anymore now that this is the start of a very big second wave," German Chancellor Angela Merkel's chief of staff, Helge Braun, told public broadcaster ARD. "At the start of this second wave it is up to us to stop the infections. The longer we wait and the less decisive we are, the more it will impact not only our health but also our economy," he added. Social media was flooded with reaction to government's decision to extend the  national state of disaster by a month, with some questioning the effectiveness of extending the national state of disaster. The extension was announced on Wednesday by co-operative governance & traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. The state of disaster was expected to end on Thursday but will now end on November 15. It was initially introduced by President Cyril Ramaphosa on March 15, to allow the government to put together regulations that would curb the spread of Covid-19. Retail pharmacy company Clicks will soon start offering Covid-19 antibody tests at its clinics nationwide. The tests look for signs of previous Covid-19 infection and developed antibodies to fight the disease. Speaking to TimesLIVE on Thursday, Clicks chief commercial officer Rachel Wrigglesworth said the clinics will start testing from October 19 and it will cost R199. Health minister Zweli Mkhize has promised an aggressive “catch-up” drive to restore community health services and persuade people to seek health care as the country emerges from the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking at a webinar to mark the start of the seventh annual Rotary Family Health Day outreach programme, Mkhize said it was imperative that SA did not squander any gains made during the pandemic. Under siege over his handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic, President Donald Trump on Wednesday cited what he said was his son's mild bout of the virus as a reason why American schools should reopen as soon as possible. Republican Trump made the comment about his son, Barron, while at a rally at the Des Moines, Iowa, airport on a mission to shore up support in battleground states that he won in 2016 but is in danger of losing to Democratic candidate Joe Biden barely three weeks before the election.