An investigating officer, who took to the stand in the Senekal magistrate’s court in the bail application of the two men charged with killing farm manager Brendin Horner, on Friday painted a grim image of how the victim was severely tortured before he died. Capt Gerhardus Myburgh, who testified in the two suspects' bail bid, said Horner’s body was found on October 2 on the Free State farm where he worked. Sekwetje Isaiah Mahlamba and Sekola Piet Matlaletsa are both asking for bail and have indicated they intend to plead not guilty to the murder and robbery of Horner. Matlaletsa told the court he was not a flight risk. He said he provided for the family through his disability grant. He said the family also lived off the social grant for three of his four children. The oldest child was 19 and the youngest was nine. Here are five must-read stories on Senekal: One person has been arrested after being found in possession of an illegal firearm at a roadblock just outside Senekal in the Free State on Friday morning, police minister Bheki Cele confirmed. He said police started setting up roadblocks leading to the farming town on Thursday in anticipation of crowds attending the bail hearing  of Sekwetje Isaiah Mahlamba and Sekola Piet Matlaletsa. The men are charged with the murder of 21-year old farm foreman Brendin Horner. Cele said several people carrying firearms were asked to turn around. Tensions are high in Senekal as EFF supporters and members of the farming community gathered in the Free State town on Friday, when two men alleged to have killed farm manager Brendin Horner appeared in court. The state believes Sekwetje Isaiah Mahlamba and Sekola Piet Matlaletsa - the two men alleged to have murdered farm manager Brendin Horner - may have bragged and confessed to the killing while enjoying beers a few hours after the murder. Presenting his information at the Senekal magistrate’s court on Friday, where the bail bid of the accused was being heard, the prosecutor* told the court the state had at least two witnesses who could attest to this. Bloodstains on clothing found in the home of one of the men implicated in the murder of Senekal farm manager Brendin Horner were in the spotlight at the Senekal magistrate’s court on Friday. Sekwetje Mahlamba, who is applying for bail, told the court that bloodstains found on his pants had come from an animal slaughtered in September. He said he had been at a local event where he helped with the slaughtering of an animal. Only closing arguments by the legal teams and delivery of judgment may be broadcast in the trial of two men in connection with the murder of 21-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. TV cameras and photographers will be allowed in the courtroom during the adjournment. This is after the prosecution asked for the case to be heard in camera, despite lawyers for Sekwetje Isaiah Mahlamba and Sekola Piet Matlaletsa signalling they have no problem with the media having access to the court. EFF supporters, who have now gathered in the main road of Senekal, threw rocks and empty beer bottles at bikers who attempted to pass. Police nyalas and armed police officers remain on high alert. Earlier, EFF supporters shouted “shoot, shoot, shoot,” during a tense stand-off between farmers, bikers and community. EFF supporters are now singing on the main road. EFF supporters are carrying golf clubs, sticks and knobkerries. A police bakkie separates the two groups. The 21-year-old girlfriend of murder accused Skwetja Mahlamba has proclaimed his innocence, alleging she had a solid alibi for where he was on the night farm manager Brendin Horner was murdered. Speaking to TimesLIVE on Thursday, ahead of the trial resuming on Friday, Maleqhoa Sithole, said she was with him on the night that he was alleged to have murdered Horner along with co-accused Sekola Piet Matlaletsa. Road blocks and tight security encompassed Senekal, in the Free State, on Friday before the appearance of two men alleged to have killed farm manager Brendin Horner. On the outskirts of the small farming town, police officers stopped and searched vehicles for weapons, ordering motorists out of cars as they did thorough checks. Busses carrying EFF supporters clad in the party's red regalia were parked a short distance from the court. EFF leader Julius Malema's stance on the violent protests in Senekal, Free State, has received mixed reactions in the past week from the public and politicians, some of whom have accused him of inciting public violence. The unrest followed the murder of 21-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner, allegedly by two men who appeared in the Senekal magistrate's court on Tuesday last week. Their matter was postponed to Friday while they remain in police custody. A police van was set alight and court property was damaged as protesters demanded entry into the holding cells. The SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) has called for calm as members of the EFF, civil rights group AfriForum and local farmers are expected to descend upon the Senekal magistrate’s court in the Free State on Friday. This is ahead of the second appearance of two men, Sekwetje Isaiah Mahlamba and Sekola Piet Matlaletsa alleged to have brutally murdered 21-year-old farm manager, Brendin Horner on October 1.