UIF head office closed due to Covid-19 infections, water leaks and power outage The Unemployment Insurance Fund head office in Pretoria has been closed due to Covid-19 infections, water leaks and power outage, the department of labour said on Friday morning. UIF is in the process of disbursing Covid-19 Ters to those who lost their jobs or had pay cuts during the hard lockdown. Coronavirus cases in Bulgaria hit new daily high record Bulgaria reported 516 new coronavirus cases on Friday, breaking the daily high record since the start of the pandemic in March for a third consecutive day, official data showed. The Balkan country has now 23,279 COVID-19 cases, including 880 deaths. A total of 1,063 people are hospitalised and 56 are in intensive care, data from the coronavirus information platform showed. Despite the surge in infections in past days, the health minister said the country was still doing relatively well compared to other European Union countries hit by a second COVID-19 wave and ruled out imposing new restrictions for now. -REUTERS New Covid-19 testing criteria for the Western Cape: what you need to know The Western Cape government has expanded its Covid-19 testing criteria to allow anyone in the Cape metro and rural regions of the province who is symptomatic to be tested. Premier Alan Winde made the announcement on Thursday, saying the new testing criteria will now include all people with coronavirus symptoms and is effective immediately. The new criteria come after the province earlier introduced a risk-adjusted testing strategy in the metro region, due to severe testing backlogs. Ukraine reports record daily high of 5,804 new coronavirus cases - security council Ukraine registered a record 5,804 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the national security council said on Friday, up from a previous record of 5,397 new cases reported on Thursday. The daily tally in Ukraine climbed to a record level for the third day in a row , bringing the total number of cases of coronavirus infection to 250,538 with 4,779 deaths, including 89 in the past 24 hours. The spike in new infections prompted the government to extend lockdown measures until the end of October. -REUTERS The Czech Republic's daily count of the new coronavirus rose to 5,394 on Thursday, the third record tally in a row, as the country tightened anti-pandemic measures in an attempt to curb the recent surge. The overall number of cases reached 100,757 in the country of 10.7 million and 869 people have died in connection with the Covid-19 illness, Health Ministry data showed on Friday. -REUTERS The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 4,516 to 314,660, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Friday. The reported death toll rose by 11, the tally showed. -REUTERS U.S. President Trump says might hold rally in Florida on Saturday U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday he was doing "really good" following his coronavirus diagnosis a week ago and that he might try to do a rally on Saturday night, probably in Florida, after his physician said it was safe for him to return to public engagements then. In an interview with Fox News, Trump also said he will likely take a COVID-19 test on Friday. Trump was hospitalized on Oct. 2 after he announced he had contracted the coronavirus. He returned to the White House on Oct. 5. -REUTERS