Gauteng health MEC Bandile Masuku to know his fate by Friday The fate of suspended Gauteng health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku will be known by Friday at the latest, the provincial government confirmed on Monday. This comes as premier David Makhura indicated that he had been receiving regular updates from the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) on the investigation into procurement irregularities regarding personal protective equipment (PPE). Makhura's office said he had received a new report on Masuku's involvement, which would soon be made public. SA Communist Party leader Blade Nzimande has called on the government to urgently convert the Covid-19 social relief of distress grant (SRDG) into a “universal basic income guarantee”. The Philippine health ministry on Monday reported 2,291 new coronavirus infections and 64 more deaths. In a bulletin, the ministry said total confirmed cases in the Philippines  have increased to 324,762, the highest in Southeast Asia, while deaths have reached 5,840. - Reuters Home affairs minister Aaron Motsoaledi has reinstated visa-free access to SA to the citizens of 11 countries. On Sunday, Motsoaledi said the move would help SA's ailing economy to recover, and would promote trade to stimulate economic recovery under lockdown level 1. Igshaan Dangor, the chief director of finance in the military, died of Covid-19 complications on Sunday morning. His death comes a month after that of his brother Achmat Dangor, an author and political activist. The pair are siblings of ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte. The upper roadway at Johannesburg's OR Tambo International Airport has been opened for passenger drop-offs. Airport spokesperson Samukelo Khambule said growing passenger numbers in recent days prompted airport management to adapt the drop-off and pick-up arrangements put in place when the Covid-19 lockdown was eased. More than 35.11 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 1,035,247​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. - Reuters Algeria will take further steps to ease the coronavirus lockdown including reopening schools and universities after a fall in the number of daily infections, the government said on Sunday. Under the new measures, schools and universities will reopen on Oct. 21 and Nov. 22 respectively, the government said in a statement after a cabinet meeting. The North African country has eased restrictions relating to the novel coronavirus, including resuming public transportation as well as reopening some businesses, mosques and leisure venues. It has so far reported 52,136 cases and 1,760 deaths. - Reuters