Greece will expand a night-time curfew on movement and shut restaurants and bars in the most populous areas of the country for one month to contain a resurgence in Covid-19 cases, the prime minister said on Saturday. The country has reported less cases of the novel coronavirus than most in Europe, but has seen a gradual increase in infections since early October. Restaurants, bars, coffee houses, cinemas, museums and closed gyms will be shut from this coming Tuesday, November 3, for a period of one month across northern Greece and Attica region, which includes the capital Athens. A curfew on night-time movement, until now applicable to the hardest-hit areas, would be expanded across the country from midnight to 5am. Retail businesses, industry and schools will remain open, along with service industries like hotels and hairdressing salons. - Reuters British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is considering imposing a new month-long national lockdown in England next week after scientists warned the coronavirus was spreading faster than their worst predictions, local media reported. The pandemic is spreading in most parts of Britain, where the official death toll of 46,299 is the highest in Europe. Johnson is expected to hold a news conference on Monday to announce the new measures, which would allow only essential shops and schools, nurseries and universities to remain open, The Times newspaper said. Ukraine registered a record 8,752 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the national security council said on Saturday, up from 8,312 cases on Friday. Total infections stood at 387,481, it said. - Reuters The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 19,059 to 518,753, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Saturday. The reported death toll rose by 103 to 10,452, the tally showed. - Reuters More than 45.24 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 1,183,788​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. - Reuters Residents in Australia's second largest city of Melbourne on Saturday enjoyed their first weekend of relative freedom after an almost four-month lockdown as coronavirus case numbers continued to dwindle. As Melburnians have flocked to parks, tennis courts, restaurants and shops, officials reported just one new Covid-19 case in Victoria state and no deaths. That was well down from average daily new cases of around 700 in July and early August. With the coronavirus roaring back across the US, President Donald Trump is spending the closing days of his re-election campaign criticising public officials and medical professionals who are trying to beat it back. Campaigning across the Midwest on Friday, Trump delivered a closing message that promised an economic revival and a vaccine to combat a pandemic that is pushing hospitals to capacity and killing up to 1,000 Americans each day. But that slice of optimism was delivered with great heapings of grievance — directed at Democratic rival Joe Biden and plenty of other people who aren't on Tuesday's ballot. Trump falsely said doctors earn more money when their patients die of the disease, building on his past criticism of medical experts like Dr. Anthony Fauci, his top infectious-disease expert. The US set a new all-time high for coronavirus cases confirmed in a single 24-hour period on Friday, reporting just more than 100,000 new infections to surpass the record total of 91,000 posted a day earlier, according to a Reuters tally. The daily caseload of 100,233 is also a world record for the global pandemic, surpassing the 97,894 cases reported by India on a single day in September.